THE INSIDE AGITATOR

No. 15 Saturday May 18, 1968 Progressive Reform Party Indiana University

BLACK STUDENTS MAKE LITTLE 500 WEEKEND REALLY GREAT

Although few students realized it at the time, the sit-in at the track was was an extremely important crisis for Indiana University. Black students found an extremely effectie pressure point for calling with the administration and made a heavy commitment to achieve the abolition of legalized racism within the fraternity system. Few students seem to realize the importance of the commitment, in fact many were hardly aware that this non-violent action was never intended to be one passive resistence. The blacks were going to protect themselves against anyone who attacked them or attempted to remove them from the track forcefully.
The picture that the Daily Student should have shown on the Monday after the Little 500 weekend was one of the black students, armed-with sticks and sheilds wearing motorcycle helmets, surrounded by stakes dirven into the track, rooting barricades of chairs, and standin firmly in place at 9:00 a.m. on Sunday morning. Those of us who were there at the time had hardly realized the nature of the stand that the blacks were taking and only began to see then, why we were no allowed to by the black to be on the trakc. This was the best-organized, most completely disciplined protest action ever taken on this campus and the blacks had to be usre that everyone directly involved in what might have become violent action was completely sure of his commitment.
For most of the white sympathizers, the incident began about eight or nine p.m. on Friday night when the Now University Conference began informing its members of the proposed action. The tents were already on the track at that time but everything was somewhat confused as people waited in the pouring rain wondering what the universities response would be. Stahr was out of town as his always seems to be during really important events. Ted Najam walked around with a consciously plitical air aabout him and the blacks seemed to be in a somwhat hostile mood. Everyone feared some kind of action by students from the McButt area for it was felt that independents would be harder to control than Greeks. About eleven, Doan Sutton came to the track to hear the demands read. He said a few, nice things as if he were ready to agree to a settlement soon and left.
The blacks remained on the track all night and the next important event for white occured at two the net afternoon. There was a rooting of sympathizers and it was decided that whites were to raise money, secure food and blankets, and to distribute leaflets explaining the siutation to the students and to visitors. At time there was a great fear that the administration would attempt to remove the blacks early on Sunday morning. There was a great deal of confusion on all sides and somwhere in the campus, negotations were going on with teh Greeks and the administration.
The most interesting part of the action occuring on Saturday night. Under compotent and cool-headed leadership, the black stationed sentries around the stadium. It was somehwat unusual to see people challenged by those guards who wore helmets, carried clubes and shields and walkie-talkies. The blacks were prepared for about anything short of atomic attack. They had made a commitment and they stuck to it at every moement.
About one a.m. Sunday morning, Ted Najan and other brought the signed statements from the Fraternities. Bob Johnson said that they would exaimed and that he would make no statment until the that morning. But the Phi Delta did not meet the demands and the blacks remained on the track until President Stahr took personal responsibilitiy to see that the demands were met..
There has been considerable reaction on both sides to the sit-in. The
(Continued on Page Four)