May 24, 1968
Page 3-4 - M

(7) Statement on Student Dissent and Distruption. Moved by the concern of the Trustees over recent events on college campuses across the country, as well as the Little 500 and problems on the Bloomington Campus, President Stahr opened the dicussion of the topic with the following statement:

"Some of the events of this year on campuses across the nation have suggested some searching reflection upon the principles which undergird the academic community. The very soul of the environment for scholars is complete freedom for each to inquire, to debate and to critize, a freedom that must be preserved against attack from within the University as well as from the outside.

Inherent is such a position is the repudiation of every form of the physical pressure of force. Truth is simply not reached by methods of intimidation or destruction. It may be that nowhere else in society can reason, stripped of emotion, be expected to have its unfettered say as it can in university; in any case, it is crucial that this refuge so remain.

We recognize each individual's right to disagreement, even dissension, but the Unviersity and its numbers must be protected from threat and intimidation. Once more are sanctioned for moral ends, they may as easily be used for immoral ones.

I believe it is vitally important to this nation and to every member of the University itself that the academic freedom of the University be sustained and that the University's activities be subjected to modification only through rational means. Imparment of these principles must never meet reward. We of the administration, and I believe I speak also for the faculty and most, I hope all, of the students, in renasserting our intent to keep the Unversity's campus free from interference by any with the rights of other, from interference with free inquiry and expresion of opinion and from disruption of the University's functioning by meneacing or coeroive means.

Judge Eachbech presented the Board's point of view, as well as his own, that the administration and the students of Indiana Unversity have done a commendable job of maintaining peace with dignity on this campus. Feeling that the tire is appropriate for the Board to reiterate their stated policy, he had prepared the following statement of reaffirmation and distributed it to the Trustees during the noon recess. The members of the Board then dicussed the statement and Judge Eachbech read the final form in its entirety, as follows:

Statement of the Trustrees of Indiana University

"The Trustees of Indiana University consider it both timely and approprirate to reaffirm the long-standing commitment of the University to providing maximum educational opportunity for all her students and to make explicit that no essential part of the commiment and of such opportunity is the necessity to maintain genuine academic freedom and to preserve the right of all members of the University community to question, debate, criticise and dissent peaceably.