THE INSIDE AGITATOR Saturday May 18, 1968 Page Four

BLACK STUDENTS (Continued from Page One)

griffiti in restrooms around campus has been profuse, both pro-black and anti-black, pro-Greek and anti-Greek, racist and non-racist, and various combinations. However, the important thing is that the black students did accomplish their demands. Racism in overt and covert forms has not been elimated no has the Greek system been integrated, but the legal basis of racism at I.U. has been destroyed. In an attack upon an instiution such as racism, one must first abolish the legal susteince and then reach to a more general, individual attack.
The sit-in at the Little 500 is the most successful of agitation to date on this campus. Black students have shown that by disciplinced resistence to injustice and by focusing upon something that reigns supreme in the minds of most students and alumni--athletics--good results can be achieved.

FINAL ARTICLE OF PRAISE TO THE DAILY STUDENT

Due to the rarity of IA compliments to the activities of the Daily Student, a second article of the "new face" of the Student is perhaps not out of order. We have two comments to make on the Student. First, a compliment should be given for some of the really fine editorial pages produces in the last week-articles in this category included the Dow demonstration Continuing Committee report (very good), actual criticism of the I.U. Foundation in the "World's Greatest College What!", a report on the campus "Students for McCarthy, Kennedy, etc." an article on the Afro-Afro-American Students Association, and oen on viisitation. In general, the editorials have been intelligent critism and thought, over criticism of the administration (Honor a request for Editor Balough's resignation).
If you have not read those articles yet, get copies and do so! The second comment is on some of the reporting--in general it is still pretty poor. Jerry Hicks, for example, can't seem to capture the actual tone of the event of even draw an accurate picture of what happens. We still need much more accurate and extensive reportning at the grass roots staff levels. Otherwise, though, the Student is begnning to contribute meaningfully to to the student experience, and perhaps, is becoming more and more worthy of its title--The Daily Student and not Daily Administration.