May 11, 1968
5 PM

WHY THE BLACK STUDENTS ARE SITTING-IN

Unless their demands are met, several hundred members of the Blak student community now occupying the old stadium won't allow the Little 500 race to run. Their action is directed against the university's active support of avowedly racist fraternities and sororities. in spite of clear and repeated demands that the greek system eliminate racially discriminatory membership clauses, the university has refused to act.
Now the Black students have acted, because they realize that sweet talking de facto segregation at IU will not be ended by a polite hint whispered in Elvis Stahr's ear. They have made three simple demands that the fraternities and sororities can meet, if they choose to clear out the cesspool of discrimintation they live in. The demands are:
1. Each fraternity give a xeroxed copy of membership clauses in its national constitution.
2. Each fraternity give a xeroxed copy of any local clauses regarding membership selection and initiation.
3. Each chapter submit a notarized statement that it will not recognize or honor any racially discriminatory clause in its national charter, and further that the local will work actively to eliminate such clauses.
Doing something about racism does mean things have to change, because things are pretty bad now. Perhaps the university will not want to change in favor of racial justice. Perhaps they will prefer to curry the favor of rich former-greek bigots who dominate the money-raising ceremonious bureaucracies which serve themselves by 'serving' IU. If so, the university will pay the cost of their weekness, for the black students want justice, and they don't plan to wait until 1970, and they don't plan to wait until next semester. They are waiting on the track peacefully for the demands to be met. If the university sends in police, preferring violence to equality, the black students aee well prepared to defend themselves.
How can you help? The Black community can take care of the track themselves. White students can helpy by phoning President Stahr, 7-4613; Jack Wick, President of IFC, at the Phi Kappa Theta house, 2-3372; and Bill Armstrong, Director of the UI Foundation at 6-3087.
BLANKETS AND FOOD ARE ALSO NEEDED FOR THE STUDENTS SITTING IN: If you can lend or give food, blankets or money, please bring them to 426 e. 10th Street TONIGHT.
If the Black students are beaten and trucked off, there must be more direct action on the part of white students.

United Anti-Racist Movement