the inside agitator  no. 15 saturday may 18, 1968 progressive reform party indiana university  black students make little 500 weekend really great  although few students realized it at the time, the sit-in at the track was was an extremely important crisis for indiana university. black students found an extremely effectie pressure point for calling with the administration and made a heavy commitment to achieve the abolition of legalized racism within the fraternity system. few students seem to realize the importance of the commitment, in fact many were hardly aware that this non-violent action was never intended to be one passive resistence. the blacks were going to protect themselves against anyone who attacked them or attempted to remove them from the track forcefully. the picture that the daily student should have shown on the monday after the little 500 weekend was one of the black students, armed-with sticks and sheilds wearing motorcycle helmets, surrounded by stakes dirven into the track, rooting barricades of chairs, and standin firmly in place at 9:00 a.m. on sunday morning. those of us who were there at the time had hardly realized the nature of the stand that the blacks were taking and only began to see then, why we were no allowed to by the black to be on the trakc. this was the best-organized, most completely disciplined protest action ever taken on this campus and the blacks had to be usre that everyone directly involved in what might have become violent action was completely sure of his commitment. for most of the white sympathizers, the incident began about eight or nine p.m. on friday night when the now university conference began informing its members of the proposed action. the tents were already on the track at that time but everything was somewhat confused as people waited in the pouring rain wondering what the universities response would be. stahr was out of town as his always seems to be during really important events. ted najam walked around with a consciously plitical air aabout him and the blacks seemed to be in a somwhat hostile mood. everyone feared some kind of action by students from the mcbutt area for it was felt that independents would be harder to control than greeks. about eleven, doan sutton came to the track to hear the demands read. he said a few, nice things as if he were ready to agree to a settlement soon and left. the blacks remained on the track all night and the next important event for white occured at two the net afternoon. there was a rooting of sympathizers and it was decided that whites were to raise money, secure food and blankets, and to distribute leaflets explaining the siutation to the students and to visitors. at time there was a great fear that the administration would attempt to remove the blacks early on sunday morning. there was a great deal of confusion on all sides and somwhere in the campus, negotations were going on with teh greeks and the administration. the most interesting part of the action occuring on saturday night. under compotent and cool-headed leadership, the black stationed sentries around the stadium. it was somehwat unusual to see people challenged by those guards who wore helmets, carried clubes and shields and walkie-talkies. the blacks were prepared for about anything short of atomic attack. they had made a commitment and they stuck to it at every moement. about one a.m. sunday morning, ted najan and other brought the signed statements from the fraternities. bob johnson said that they would exaimed and that he would make no statment until the that morning. but the phi delta did not meet the demands and the blacks remained on the track until president stahr took personal responsibilitiy to see that the demands were met.. there has been considerable reaction on both sides to the sit-in. the (continued on page four)
the inside agitator saturday may 18, 1968 page four  black students (continued from page one)  griffiti in restrooms around campus has been profuse, both pro-black and anti-black, pro-greek and anti-greek, racist and non-racist, and various combinations. however, the important thing is that the black students did accomplish their demands. racism in overt and covert forms has not been elimated no has the greek system been integrated, but the legal basis of racism at i.u. has been destroyed. in an attack upon an instiution such as racism, one must first abolish the legal susteince and then reach to a more general, individual attack. the sit-in at the little 500 is the most successful of agitation to date on this campus. black students have shown that by disciplinced resistence to injustice and by focusing upon something that reigns supreme in the minds of most students and alumni--athletics--good results can be achieved.  final article of praise to the daily student  due to the rarity of ia compliments to the activities of the daily student, a second article of the "new face" of the student is perhaps not out of order. we have two comments to make on the student. first, a compliment should be given for some of the really fine editorial pages produces in the last week-articles in this category included the dow demonstration continuing committee report (very good), actual criticism of the i.u. foundation in the "world's greatest college what!", a report on the campus "students for mccarthy, kennedy, etc." an article on the afro-afro-american students association, and oen on viisitation. in general, the editorials have been intelligent critism and thought, over criticism of the administration (honor a request for editor balough's resignation). if you have not read those articles yet, get copies and do so! the second comment is on some of the reporting--in general it is still pretty poor. jerry hicks, for example, can't seem to capture the actual tone of the event of even draw an accurate picture of what happens. we still need much more accurate and extensive reportning at the grass roots staff levels. otherwise, though, the student is begnning to contribute meaningfully to to the student experience, and perhaps, is becoming more and more worthy of its title--the daily student and not daily administration.
m-2 (as amended) april 25, 1968  a resolution concerning little 500 scholarships  whereas: a primary purpose of the little 500 weekend is to raise funds for iu scholarships; and  whereas: the scholarships are financially beneficial to students as well as expressions of university good will; and  whereas: inroads into discrimination against blacks need to be made; and  whereas: the university community should lead in this area; and  whereas: allocation of 1968 little 500 scholarhips to more blacks would be such an inroad into elimination of discrimination, as well as an act of good will;  therefore, be it hereby resolved by the student senate of indiana university that:  1. the board of directors of the iu foundation to be urged to meet as soon as possible and enact the following policy change:  a. alter the present method of scholarship allocation so that at least one half of the little 500 scholarships being awarded be given to negro students  [2. mr. william armstrong of the iu foundation be requested to report all action taken by the iu foundation to the student senate.]  3. all necessary steps to be taken to see that this change is instituted and applies to funds raised as a result of the 1968 little 500 weekend.  4. copies of this resolution shall be sent to all members of the iu foundation board of directors, the iu foundation, members of the little 500 steering committee, the afro afro-american students association, and president elvis j. stahr.  respectfully submitted,  dayle rosenblum (foster i - independent)
black students of i.u. may 10, 1968  in an effort to be clear about the demands presented by black students, the following conditions are herby stated. we are concerned that many houses can, by law, operate in a racially discriminatory manner. we do not feel that any house that is currently in violation of university policy should be allowed to participate in the little 500 race. if, indeed, all houses can show documentation that no national or local restrictions exist in their operations, we will conced to that legal point. in order to moot our demands, we need the following documentation from the constitutions of all local fraternities: 1. a copy of their local constitution as it refers to the selection of numbers. 2. a plan of action that spells out, specifically, how desogragation will occur (i.e. recruiting plans, etc.) those house who do not produce this documentation will not be recognized as qualified to participate in the little 500 race this year.  black students news service
may 24, 1968 page 3-4 - m  (7) statement on student dissent and distruption. moved by the concern of the trustees over recent events on college campuses across the country, as well as the little 500 and problems on the bloomington campus, president stahr opened the dicussion of the topic with the following statement:  "some of the events of this year on campuses across the nation have suggested some searching reflection upon the principles which undergird the academic community. the very soul of the environment for scholars is complete freedom for each to inquire, to debate and to critize, a freedom that must be preserved against attack from within the university as well as from the outside.  inherent is such a position is the repudiation of every form of the physical pressure of force. truth is simply not reached by methods of intimidation or destruction. it may be that nowhere else in society can reason, stripped of emotion, be expected to have its unfettered say as it can in university; in any case, it is crucial that this refuge so remain.  we recognize each individual's right to disagreement, even dissension, but the unviersity and its numbers must be protected from threat and intimidation. once more are sanctioned for moral ends, they may as easily be used for immoral ones.  i believe it is vitally important to this nation and to every member of the university itself that the academic freedom of the university be sustained and that the university's activities be subjected to modification only through rational means. imparment of these principles must never meet reward. we of the administration, and i believe i speak also for the faculty and most, i hope all, of the students, in renasserting our intent to keep the unversity's campus free from interference by any with the rights of other, from interference with free inquiry and expresion of opinion and from disruption of the university's functioning by meneacing or coeroive means.  judge eachbech presented the board's point of view, as well as his own, that the administration and the students of indiana unversity have done a commendable job of maintaining peace with dignity on this campus. feeling that the tire is appropriate for the board to reiterate their stated policy, he had prepared the following statement of reaffirmation and distributed it to the trustees during the noon recess. the members of the board then dicussed the statement and judge eachbech read the final form in its entirety, as follows:  statement of the trustrees of indiana university  "the trustees of indiana university consider it both timely and approprirate to reaffirm the long-standing commitment of the university to providing maximum educational opportunity for all her students and to make explicit that no essential part of the commiment and of such opportunity is the necessity to maintain genuine academic freedom and to preserve the right of all members of the university community to question, debate, criticise and dissent peaceably.
"in keeping with these traditional policies, the trustees recognise that educational opportunity, academic freedom and the right to dissent peaceably cannot be presevered in an environment of force and violence or the threat of force and violence which interferes with, or disrupts or obstructs the work and activities of the unversity or members of the university community. such a climate is created by the unauthorized seizare and occupation of the university community of the fall use fo such facilities for their intended purpose, and of like effect are the use of intimidation, coercion, or the physical restraint or threatening of persons.  "in the light of the fact that such events have occured in a number of academic communities in reacent weeks, the trustees of indiana university are constrained to make plain their support of the officials of the university in the firm enforcement of university policies and rules relating to picketing, demonstrating and related matters; and we recognize and affirm the necessity to take immediate steps to expel, under established procedures, any students who (1), actively engages in any conduct which includes violence or the threat of violence and which obstructs or disrupts university work or activity, or (2), who engages in conduct which usurps unviersity property or facilities; and, further, we reaffirm the necessity to take immediate steps to impose appropriate discipline, including explusion, under established procedures, upon any student who engages in conduct which unreasonably interfers with the freedom of movement of persons on any compus of the unversity."  the policy was unamimously reaffirmed, on motion duly made and seconded.
may 11, 1968 5 pm  why the black students are sitting-in  unless their demands are met, several hundred members of the blak student community now occupying the old stadium won't allow the little 500 race to run. their action is directed against the university's active support of avowedly racist fraternities and sororities. in spite of clear and repeated demands that the greek system eliminate racially discriminatory membership clauses, the university has refused to act. now the black students have acted, because they realize that sweet talking de facto segregation at iu will not be ended by a polite hint whispered in elvis stahr's ear. they have made three simple demands that the fraternities and sororities can meet, if they choose to clear out the cesspool of discrimintation they live in. the demands are: 1. each fraternity give a xeroxed copy of membership clauses in its national constitution. 2. each fraternity give a xeroxed copy of any local clauses regarding membership selection and initiation. 3. each chapter submit a notarized statement that it will not recognize or honor any racially discriminatory clause in its national charter, and further that the local will work actively to eliminate such clauses. doing something about racism does mean things have to change, because things are pretty bad now. perhaps the university will not want to change in favor of racial justice. perhaps they will prefer to curry the favor of rich former-greek bigots who dominate the money-raising ceremonious bureaucracies which serve themselves by 'serving' iu. if so, the university will pay the cost of their weekness, for the black students want justice, and they don't plan to wait until 1970, and they don't plan to wait until next semester. they are waiting on the track peacefully for the demands to be met. if the university sends in police, preferring violence to equality, the black students aee well prepared to defend themselves. how can you help? the black community can take care of the track themselves. white students can helpy by phoning president stahr, 7-4613; jack wick, president of ifc, at the phi kappa theta house, 2-3372; and bill armstrong, director of the ui foundation at 6-3087. blankets and food are also needed for the students sitting in: if you can lend or give food, blankets or money, please bring them to 426 e. 10th street tonight. if the black students are beaten and trucked off, there must be more direct action on the part of white students.  united anti-racist movement
b-2 (as amended) april 25, 1968  a bill to amend the constitution  19 in favor 3 abstentions  wheras: the student senate of indiana university is extablished to represent teh voice of the students; and whereas: a voice of the black population is missing; and whereas: a non-voting representative of the ifc, panhellenic, aws, and irha sit on the senate; and whereas: the afro afro-american student association is similarly representative of black students;  therefore, be it hereby enacted by the student senate of indiana university that: 1. article i, section 2, of the indiana university student government constitution be changed to read: the student senate shall consist of the vice-president of the student body, who shall have in additioni the title of speaker of the senate; the four class presidents; the president or permanent designate from irha, ifc, panhellenic, aws, married student council, the afro afro-american student associated and other senators elected by the voting districts designated in student senate legislation.  they do have a vote!  2. copies of this bill be sent to the afro afro-american students association, and married student council.  respectfully submitted,  dayle rosenblum (foster i - independent)  against
