
should all be eager and steadfast in working together to reestablish our role as a vital
department within the Fine Arts at RISD and beyond.

Sincerely,

Class of 2021 MFA Printmaking Students
Alexis Hill

Breslin Bell

Edward Steffanni

Haley MacKeil

Mariana Ramos Ortiz

Riley Wilson

ADDENDUM

In light of the statement released on June 29th to the RISD Anti-Racism Coalition by
Printmaking Department Head Cornelia McSheehy, there are additional, very
concerning issues requiring further response. Our letter crafted for the entire
department does not directly address this most recent statement, which amplifies and
consolidates many of the concerning issues within the department. It is also full of
inaccuracies, problematic anecdotes, personal information about students and staff, and
concerning language that we do not condone or agree with. We further do not support a
statement made by one voice on behalf of the entirety of the department; students, staff,
and BIPOC community members. This department response to risdARC is a statement
which creates excuses for insufficient department diversity, and fails to acknowledge the
role of the department in systemic inequities. We as a graduate cohort are committed to
following up with our department regarding these deeper systemic concerns. We plan to
address, in more detail, this statement with our department faculty and staff directly.


Terry F. Pechacek, Research Professor, Health Policy and Behavioral Science, School of Public Health
Laura F. Salazar, Professor, School of Public Health, Second Century Initiative (2C1) Scholar in Health Equity
Jonathan J. Orr, Clinical Associate Professor, Dept of Counseling and Psychological Services, CEHD
Sandra Holland

Susan-Sojourna Collier, Lecturer, School of Film, Media & Theatre

Fa’Tima Geeston, MBA, Grants & Contracts Officer 11

Dr. DaShaunda Patterson, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Learning Sciences

Niklas Vollmer, Associate Professor, School of Film, Media & Theatre

Kendall Kerew, Associate Clinical Professor, College of Law

PaviElle Johnson, Chemistry Lecturer

Olivia Johnson, Marketing and Conference Services Manager, College of Law

Caren Morrison, Associate Professor, College of Law

Susan Navarro Smelcer, Assistant Professor, College of Law

Will Miller, Immigration Clinic, College of Law




4th Year D.EnV Candidate 2nd Year Ph.D Student

   

3rd Year D.EnV Candidate 2nd Year Ph.D Student

   

5th Year D.EnV Candidate lst Year Ph.D Student

   

2nd Year Ph.D Student lst Year D.EnV Student

Former 4th Year D.EnV Candidate Former lst Year Ph.D. Student

2nd Year Ph.D Student lst Year D.EnV Student

lst Year Ph.D. Student lst Year Ph.D Student

lst Year D.EnV Student


Copy of Email to Department:
Subject: ‘21 BFA Printmaking Departmental Propositions
Dear RISD Printmaking Faculty and Students,

As members of this institution, and both witnesses and victims to its violence, the Printmaking
Class of 2021 recognizes our complacency in waiting to break our silence. We need to be more
alert and proactive so that Black, Indigenous, and non—Black people of color, who are already
vulnerable to systemic oppression, aren’t forced to speak out at their own risk. We are grateful
for the students advocating for BIPOC through the RISD & Race Forum, RISD Anti-Racism
Coalition, BlackAtRisd, and all other organizations challenging institutional racism. We will
continue to support their work and demand transparency and action from our specific
department in addition to RISD as a whole. Attached is our group statement which proposes a
number of solutions, both short term and long term, with the intention of supporting our BIPOC
faculty and students as well as addressing departmental ailments.

Statement of Intent:

Given the lackluster departmental response, in essence shifting much blame to lack of
funding and bureaucratic difficulties, we, the undergraduate Class of 2021, would like to work
towards facilitating departmental longevity and remedy a number of issues that currently all our
institutional experience, specifically with the aim of prioritizing BIPOC voices and their
involvement. The following contains a short list of potential initiatives, some of which require
zero funding and simply the continued effort of faculty. However, others will take real time, work,
and reallocation of funds. We must reflect on the ways in which we have harmed Black people
and act by redistributing the resources, power, and security that privilege has rewarded us. We
expect and require continued transparency and dialogue moving forward to ensure that we can
make progress given the current circumstances and limitations set by the global pandemic.

We cannot support the department’s response, which shifts culpability and involvement
in systems that actively exclude Black, Indigenous, and people of color at this institution.
Pointing to an overall institutional lack of BIPOC representation as an excuse for an all white,
full—time printmaking faculty is an inadequate justification.

Signed,

Class of 2021 BFA Printmaking



9. Support for alumni and recent graduates of color: The fields of Ecology,
Evolutionary, and Marine Biology can be difficult for people of color to work in after
graduation, as the workplace often lacks ethnic and racial diversity. As the only person of
color in the workplace, diverse graduates can expect to be the sole "representative" of
their respective culture in the workplace. In addition, diverse environmental professionals
are often tasked with self—advocacy and fighting for inclusivity in the workplace in
addition to our regular duties. These additional mental and emotional burdens are a
systemic problem in both academia and within the workplace, and these struggles surely
cause many students from marginalized identities to leave academia and/or exit the
environmental (and STEM) fields.

To ease the transition of EEMB students into the workforce, EEMB administration should
create a strong EEMB alumni of color network by establishing a formal mentorship
program for students of color who are looking for support and advice in the workplace
and academia.

10. Improve diverse recruitment and support for underrepresented postdoctoral
scholars in EEMB: As an institution committed to training the next generation of
environmental leaders and researchers, EEMB has a duty to recruit, train, and retain
racial and ethnic minority postdoctoral scientists at a pivotal point in their careers. These
scientists create a diverse recruitment pool for tenure—track faculty and lecturers for the
department and greater environmental sciences field.

As a school committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment, we implore you to heed
to the actionable demands we thoughtfully outlined.

Sincerely,
Jasmine Childress, lmani Russell, Terence Leach, Adriane McDonald, and Nicola Paul
(Black Graduate Students of EEMB)


commitments as described for the summer which will help to frame further actions for academic year
2020/2021.

Thank you to the student leaders and alumni who wrote and signed the letter, and who shared their
perspectives in our faculty meeting. We appreciate your action statement and regard it as a starting
point for us to understand that we must be committed personally and professionally to effect change.

In solidarity,

Faculty of Environmental Health Sciences

.ﬂﬂ 00AM [W ﬁC‘i—g

Shane Que Hee Miriam Marlier
mfﬁ/ ﬂag; ./W
Brian Cole Kirsten Sc arz
. ,.. r" J a! *
I! g. “is—“h“ a . i
W72. 4% ' kc.
Michael Collins Irwin (Mel) Suffet

Michae - J erre t Jane Valentine

Wat/a M

Yifang Zhu

 

>kNiklas Krause on sabbatical



Department of African American Studies The Pennsylvania State University 814-863-4243 062 Greenberg Complex Fax: 814-863-3578 University Park, PA 16802 afam.la.psu.edu How We Can Make Black Lives at Penn State Matter, An Open Letter to President  Eric J. Barron from the Department of African American Studies, University Park Dear President Barron: The Department of African American Studies at Penn State University joins those  around the country and across the globe who are protesting anti-Black police violence,  sparked by the police-murder of George Floyd. As we mourn the deaths of Floyd,  Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade and so many others at the hands of police, we  remember that police right here in State College killed Osaze Osagie in March of 2019  (See here: https://www.centredaily.com/news/local/community/state college/article234892452.html. As in most police-involved shootings, Mr. Osagie’s  homicide was ruled justifiable and no one was held accountable. However, such  incidents and the graphic footage of police violence against unarmed protestors make  very clear that policing in the US continues to serve the interests of the powerful by  enforcing the racist, sexist, homophobic, transphobic and exploitative social and political  order. We point to the case of Osaze Osagie to remind the University community that  police violence and other racial harms are national AND local.  The continuing crisis of police violence against Black people is occurring precisely as  Black and Brown people are being disproportionately impacted by the global health  pandemic. The huge disparities between Black and White people in contracting and  dying from Covid-19 in the U.S. reinforces the fact that systemic anti-Black racism and  white supremacy are a national disease as old as African people’s presence on these  shores. Wherever one lives, whatever one’s class, gender identification, ethnic identity  or religion, white supremacy in all of its myriad forms contributes to health, wealth,  educational, income and incarceration disparities between Black and White people, and  these disparities are reinforced by pervasive and persistent anti-Black state and non state violence. As members of an academic community formed in the crucible of 1960s social  movements, we know that this is a historic, but not unprecedented, time in our collective  history. We remain committed to challenging systemic racial inequality and injustice, as  well as anti-Black violence. And we support the right of all people to protest the  conditions of theirs and others’ oppression, particularly when such protests affirm the  dignity and value of Black life. Here in State College, we teach in a majority-white  university, our children attend predominantly white schools, we shop in majority-white  stores, and we encounter an overwhelmingly white State College police force so we  understand just how enmeshed are the conditions on campus and off. We recognize the  traumas Black people in this community face as we navigate almost all white spaces  daily. We are also painfully aware that faculty of color and particularly Black faculty are  often tasked with addressing inequities and systemic racism around us, typically at the  expense of our own teaching, scholarship, and career advancement. Our university recently concluded a historic hire of 13 faculty at all ranks in African  American Culture and Life. But, as of yet, the University has done little to support the  retention of this major investment. We hope that the current crises make clear to  administrators that now is the time to make the climate hospitable for them, their  families, and the students who so need the teaching and research they bring to this  institution. This recent cluster hire and the rapid response to Covid-19 prove that Penn  State can act, and act swiftly, when it has the will to do so. Surely, if we can learn and  work during the pandemic of the century, we can learn and work without racism. We,  therefore, call on President Eric J. Barron to meet this moment with effective and  decisive action rather than “plans”, “committees”, and other fact-finding bodies that  effectively delay action. If national protests show anything, it is that people have had  enough of moderate reforms and promises, and demand remedies such as those listed  below that will lead to structural and lasting change. To be clear, we appreciate that your June 10th letter acknowledges that Penn State has  much urgent work to do “within” our own Penn State community. However, we do not  accept the initiatives you listed as legitimate or sufficient responses to historical and  contemporary inequities at Penn State and in State College. Like so many other  universities, we have been here before. During moments of crisis, universities often turn  to familiar administrative responses: task forces, high level committees, faculty senate  deliberations that frequently produce important reports, but yield little, if any, structural  change -- perhaps by design. Moreover, we note that your letter calls for collaboration  with the Faculty Senate, a body with a majority white membership with very little  scholarly, professional or experiential expertise analyzing and combating anti-Black  racism. Certainly, with a few exceptions, this can be said for Penn State’s upper  administration, as well. Therefore, we call on you, President Barron, to recognize the  expertise of the African American Studies department where we teach courses and  produce research that analyzes the historical, structural, and pervasive inequities  against which Black people struggle here and around the globe. As a community of  scholars who have been teaching the history of race and racism in the United States  since the discipline’s founding, we call on you to center our department and our  disciplines' collective expertise and knowledge in ongoing discussions about how to  deal with the national and campus crisis of systemic racism. We therefore call on you, President Barron, to do the following: 1) Sever Ties with Local Police Forces and Disarm Campus Police: We request that  Penn State, as have other universities, dissolve contracts with outside police forces  whose policies and practices reflect the pervasive anti-black bias evident in policing  around the country. We support the demilitarization of all police including on-campus  police by asking that they be disarmed on campus. This will ensure that all members of  our community can work and learn in an environment where we do not fear for our lives;2 2) Establish a New Task Force on Policing and Communities of Color: We ask you  to form a new commission to address local policing that includes local faculty experts on  race and policing, community members most impacted by biased policing practices, and  nationally recognized experts who are proposing ways to reduce public harm, increase  transparency, institute community review, and strengthen criminal and civil  accountability for police brutality. We adamantly oppose the revival of the 2016 Task  Force on Policing and Communities of Color given its composition and its  recommendations, which would not substantially change the structural relationship of  police to Black and other marginalized communities. For decades, numerous studies  have shown that the 2016 report’s proposed recommendations, even if implemented,  would not work. Instead, changes to current policing practices should be formulated  and implemented using evidence-based solutions from groups like the Center for  Policing Equity and Yale Law School’s Justice Collaboratory, among others. In addition,  increased funding is needed for public services that address the root causes of  domestic violence, substance abuse, houselessness, and mental health crises; 3) Center Courses in African American Studies and Other Appropriate Units for a  New GE Requirement on Anti-Black Racism and Challenges To It: Penn State is not  unique in being a place where structural racism operates, but it does have a unique  opportunity to make meaningful change. We represent an academic field that is well positioned to educate our students and community about the history of structural  racism, racial violence, and the meaning of transformative justice. We call on  the university to center our course offerings including Black Freedom Struggles (AFAM  100), Racism and Sexism (AFAM 103), Afro-Latin America (AFAM 105), and African  American History (AFAM 152), as well as the course offerings of other units including  African Studies, Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, Latino/a Studies, and Asian  American Studies that address these issues. Courses that focus on structural racism  and challenges to it should be required of all students as part of our General Education  requirements; 4) Establish a Well-Funded Resource Center for Underrepresented Faculty:  Underrepresented racial and ethnic minority faculty members are difficult to recruit and  retain at Penn State. In other words, Penn State and State College are not welcoming  environments for nonwhite, historically marginalized faculty. This is unfair and inequitable. We call on you to establish a well-funded resource center for  underrepresented faculty and other marginalized populations that facilitates equitable  access to opportunities, leadership and advancement at each career-stage. We also  call on you to institute stronger policies that better protect faculty from the racial and  ethnic microaggressions and behaviors from colleagues and administrators that inhibit  their success at Penn State;  5) Increase Student Aid for Black Students: Black students are more likely than any  other demographic group to graduate in debt and among all students who graduate in  debt, theirs is the highest. Penn State, thus, participates in aggravating the existing (and 3 growing) Black-white wealth disparity. We ask that Penn State increase the resources it  devotes to recruiting Black and underrepresented students including allocating  scholarships for Black undergraduates and predoctoral, doctoral and postdoctoral  fellowships for Black graduate students so that we can successfully recruit them and  they can graduate debt-free;  6) Increase Mental Health Resources for Black Students: Racial and ethnic  minorities are harmed by racial and ethnic microaggressions and other activities that  define their Penn State experience. As a result, they are disproportionately represented  among those seeking increased mental health resources. Yet, their academic success  depends on their ability to maintain emotional and psychological health. The creation of  equity and greater diversity means that we must develop resources that support their  success, despite these unfair conditions. We call for a renewed focus on the recruitment  and retention of mental health professionals who better represent the diversity of our  student body and can better serve their needs. The time for change is long overdue, as global and local protests over the last 3 weeks  have demonstrated. We stand with our students in demanding that this university do  better. We call on Penn State to become a local and national leader in combating  systemic anti-Black racism on its campuses and eradicating police violence and all  forms of state and nonstate violence wherever it is found. We look forward to your  response.  Respectfully, The African American Studies Department, afam@psu.edu 16 June 20204 

growing) Black-white wealth disparity. We ask that Penn State increase the resources it
devotes to recruiting Black and underrepresented students including allocating
scholarships for Black undergraduates and predoctoral, doctoral and postdoctoral
fellowships for Black graduate students so that we can successfully recruit them and
they can graduate debt-free;

6) Increase Mental Health Resources for Black Students: Racial and ethnic
minorities are harmed by racial and ethnic microaggressions and other activities that
define their Penn State experience. As a result, they are disproportionately represented
among those seeking increased mental health resources. Yet, their academic success
depends on their ability to maintain emotional and psychological health. The creation of
equity and greater diversity means that we must develop resources that support their
success, despite these unfair conditions. We call for a renewed focus on the recruitment
and retention of mental health professionals who better represent the diversity of our
student body and can better serve their needs.

The time for change is long overdue, as global and local protests over the last 3 weeks
have demonstrated. We stand with our students in demanding that this university do
better. We call on Penn State to become a local and national leader in combating
systemic anti-Black racism on its campuses and eradicating police violence and all
forms of state and nonstate violence wherever it is found. We look forward to your
response.

Respectfully,
The African American Studies Department, afam@psu.edu
16 June 2020


proposal, we aim to establish a student task force which will serve as direct points of contact for
the faculty, reinforcing and insisting upon these demands as time elapses. A distinction between
the student representative and the student task force is necessary: while the student
representative speaks to and on behalf of RISDs undergraduate body of students, the student
task force (which can include the student representative) speaks to the apparel faculty on behalf
of apparel students and with these demands in mind. The student task force will frequently
report to SEI throughout each academic year to hold the Apparel Design Department
accountable, and to receive guidance if needed.

This is not the only structure that must form. In addition, faculty should establish a
system of accountability within themselves in conjunction with the Department Head as the
authoritative figure. The faculty should constantly revisit this proposal and review these terms
every semester to ensure these statements will be upheld and the culture of accountability on
these issues does not die down. The faculty must release statements to the Apparel student
body on what they have and have not yet accomplished. These reports should be sent out every
few months detailing what faculty members are doing, reading, learning and even their
shortcomings. Transparency is necessary. Note that these demands are not out of nowhere,
and they will not disappear.

If for any reason the faculty and staff of the RISD Apparel Design Department cannot
meet these demands and solutions stated in this proposal, an active discussion needs to
be held between the student task force and the faculty body to make adjustments and
amendments that we as a whole body see fit, though we do not wish to significantly
compromise any of our terms.

Starting in 2020, the student task force (as part of the collective student body), will be
active in holding the faculty, staff, and students accountable, and will seek to measure
and record progressive change.

As representatives on behalf of the RISD Apparel Design student body, this document
formally declares our intent for change.

We thank our current RISD Apparel Design Department’s faculty members and
administration for their reception towards our demands as stated in this proposal.
Additionally, a special thank you to Matthew Shenoda at SEI for supporting us and all of
RISD.


UIC Student Demands 8/21/20, 10:13 AM

the University of Minnesota (UMN) announced that it

will end contracts with the Minneapolis Police
Department (MPD) after the UMN Undergraduate

Student Body President issued a letter to the
administration, following the murder of George Floyd
by the MPD. And this week, the Minneapolis City
Council vowed to disband the police department citing
that, “In Minneapolis and in cities across the US, it is
clear that our system of policing is not keeping our
communities safe”. And right now, members of

the Chicago Teachers Union are supporting Chicago
Public School (CPS) students, teachers, and families in

their demands to have CPS divest/remove CPD from
schools and invest in nurses, trauma services, and
restorative justice programming in order for students to
have #PoliceFreeSchools.

We hope that you, as leadership of UIC and the University of
Illinois System, will support us by following through with this
call to action that provides real change in the lives of
students at UIC.

Signed,

Black Student Union
Black Graduate Student Association

Allied UIC Student Organizations — over 40 signatories
Allied UIC Campus Units — 14 signatories

Allied UIC Students, Faculty, Staff, and Alumni — over
930 signatories

Allied Community Supporters — in Chicagoland and
Beyond - over 340 signatories

https://docs.goog|e.com/document/u/‘I/d/e/ZPACX-‘IvSSathjnyFem...|wAROPPS_jLLV3moDancTADq5hx0XzK8pW30r-G6L7f|VONtKr9263_c2krs Page 10 of ’IO






BIPoC Students List of Demands: RISD Photography Department July 2020 We demand that every promise, statement, and plan of action made by the administration of the photography department in response to our demands here be written, shared or announced to all students, so that they can hold the department accountable for its commitments to the students in the future. POINT 1: ADMISSIONS, FACULTY HIRING & CURRICULUM DIVERSIFY THE STUDENT BODY AND FACULTY(BIPoC, NON-CIS-GENDERED MEN) ACROSS THE DEPARTMENT 1. Recruit diverse members to the department continuously. RISD’s Photography department is known for its lack of diversity in BIPoC students, faculty and staff. It is important to increase the inclusion of BIPoC members of the department not only in the classroom environment, but in the administration as well, to foster diversity and to avoid tokenism. a. Tokenism is the practice of making only a perfunctory or symbolic effort to do a particular thing, especially by recruiting a small number of people from underrepresented groups in order to give the appearance of sexual or racial equality within a workforce. 2. Equip students with the tools to deal with race and racism. Working actively within the department, with EFS, the Dean of Fine Arts, Student Affairs, the Center for Social Equity & Inclusion and the Curriculum Committee to better equip all students with the vocabulary to engage race and racism in discussion, and in connection with student’swork. Create platforms or opportunities to foster open dialogue supporting BIPOC students and faculty. POINT 2: MAJORS’ EXPERIENCE IN FOUNDATIONS & BEYOND HOLD THE EFS DEPARTMENT ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE LACK OF REPRESENTATION OF PHOTOGRAPHY WITHIN THE PROGRAM 1. Significantly strengthen photographic education in Foundations. Build real links between upperclassmen in the major and freshmen students. Make meaningful connections to local area high school students and the Providence community. There is little to no photography or image-based learning within EFS curricula, art history courses, nor studios, which would allow students to be introduced to the medium early on. There are very few EFS professors who are themselves photographers. a. Our admissions team here at RISD is not supportive of students submitting photography-exclusive portfolio applications. This devalues our medium before students even get to RISD, and shows a bias within enrollment. b. Host portfolio discussion with applying/prospective/accepted students to help build connections between them and current students in the department, and to encourage and support their declaration of photography as a major. c. Create an undergraduate integration team within the photography department to help encourage and facilitate dialogue with freshmen, and to create opportunities for incoming students with questions about what it means to major in photography. d. Generate meaningful outreach to prospective students from our area. We have an obligation to serve our community, and to create programming (possibly in collaboration with the Museum) that introduces minority students to the art of image-making from a variety of perspectives. See, for example: https://studiomuseum.org/expanding-walls e. Create more substantive connections between current students (BFA/MFA) and RISD alumni from each program, to help students to identify more professional opportunitiesPOINT 3: TRANSFORM THE CURRICULUM DIVERSIFY AND MODERNIZE THE CURRICULUM THROUGHOUT THE DEPARTMENT Diversify the curricula across the department. Allow students to contribute regularly to reimagining the curricula in ways that will be more beneficial to students’ ability to develop careers after they complete their degrees. Continuous return to The Room of Silence in all department pedagogy, to support BIPoC and minority students. We note that the department describes the photography major and department as follows on the RISD website: “RISD approaches photography as an ever-changing set of technical, conceptual and aesthetic conditions that exist within a broad social and cultural context. Students delve into the making, presentation and interpretation of photographic images, exploring photography as both a language and a craft. Ultimately, they learn how to use cultural signifiers, symbols and metaphors in the content and structure of image-making.” However, we argue that the photography department has not met its own standards, as well as the standards of the current students, and therefore that the website creates a falsified/outdated image: 1. Reimagine the Professional Practices class so that it supports student’s learning about career opportunities, and demonstrates a wide range of practices to consider after graduation. Consider involving MFA students with meaningful expertise/experience in the photography industry to lead, aid, and contribute to the reimagining of the Professional Practices class from both a commercial and fine art standpoint. 2. Create a student representative supportive of BIPoC students to meet regularly with the department to discuss curriculum, programming and support for careers after degrees have been completed. The photography department needs a model to create urgent and sustainable change that supports students 3. Re-design every curriculum in the major to include at least 75% non-white artists and non cis-gendered male artists as references for students. Less than half of theclasses offered by the photography department include BIPoC artists and writers in their curricula for students to engage with.POINT 4: DEPARTMENTAL SPACES UPDATE, RENOVATE AND REPLACE ALL BROKEN AND OUTDATED EQUIPMENT AND SPACES The Photography department suffers from a lack of facilities and space in which to work. The physical department does not seem equipped to meet its stated goal of addressing “photography as an ever-changing set of technical, conceptual and aesthetic conditions.” 1. Our lack of facilities and narrow aesthetics will continue to make this a less attractive and less competitive photography program relative to others around the country, and RISD’s reputation will not strengthen and lift up our own as students and alumni of the program. a. Student’s inability to develop color film on campus as well as the inability to work with colorful studio backdrops also hurts our students, and places a major financial burden on them. Making the students leagues behind the commercial photography industry, which, as we all know, is incredibly saturated with colorful studio work, with many publications making this a standard.POINT 5: VISITING ARTISTS & GUEST CRITICS THE STUDENT BODY WILL BE GIVEN MORE POWER FOR DEMOCRATIC CHOICES WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT 1. Democratize the choice of visiting artists and guest critics, as one of our biggest assets as a department. Students want to exercise agency in their education, and the department should encourage them to do so. a. Create a method for our student body to curate the yearly selection of visiting artists and guest critics. b. If the faculty chooses an artist/guest critic autonomously, the student body asks for transparent announcements that reveal the intention or rationale behind the department's choice. 2. The photography department should bring no white-identifying visiting artist to lecture throughout one academic year. This would make up for previous underrepresentation of BIPoC artists, no matter who may be “better,” or “more qualified” than them.POINT 6: CAREERS The department must create more opportunities for students throughout the majors to see, learn from, participate in professional photographic practice, whether fine art, fashion, commercial or otherwise. This should include a larger number of studio visits, or extra-curricular trips, conversations with artists, photo editors, curators, agency reps or other figures in professional life. The photography department must make a stronger connection with the RISD Careers Center to create more opportunities geared directly towards students majoring in Photography. The lack of professional development in the program leaves our students disconnected from the industry as they graduate. The RISD Careers Center offers few resources or solutions or opportunities for our students, and our alumni cannot bear the full responsibility of creating professional experiences for our students on their own. The 21st-century photographer is in need of many more tools under their belt, including the following: 1. Social Media training 2. Online portfolio/web design 3. Basics for running a business/studio 4. Etiquette for professional correspondence 5. Grant writing and application training 6. Industry-standard editing techniques 7. Budgeting 8. Aesthetic development & personal branding 9. Understanding Image compilation & animation

within the department, as students from underrepresented backgrounds are likely already
balancing work and classes.

Our Ann Arbor Community. CLaSP should utilize our in-house consulting resources to
share our groundbreaking research with students of all ages. There are lots of resources available

for public engagement methods, interactive teaching ideas, and programs that students and
postdocs can get involved in.

Goal 2: Make CLaSP feel like home for everybody. Too often, there are interactions (or lack
thereof) with mentors and peers in which CLaSPers are made to feel like they do not belong.
This is unacceptable, and we must reafﬁrm our commitment to build a more just and inclusive
community.

State our values. President Schlissel made a statement concerning the horrific murders of
George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery. Dean Gallimore wrote a letter to the
community outlining his reﬂections on these atrocities, our Nation’s persistent and systemic
racism, and a call to action for students. Where does CLaSP stand? We’d like to hear.

Create and empower ombudspersons. Too often, students and staff who feel marginalized
have no meaningful recourse. CLaSP should empower both student and faculty ombudspersons
to report, track, and remedy incidents of intolerance without fear of retaliation. Remedies should
be meaningful, including the power to cause personnel actions against offending faculty and
staff. CLaSP faculty should publicly advocate for changes in U-M dismissal policies for tenured
faculty that contribute to an environment of discrimination and prejudice.

Ensure rising scholars of color are afforded opportunities to shine. Scholars of color have
made worthy contributions to our fields both inside and outside the department, and more of
them should be recognized with department accolades and funding. Department seminars should
feature faculty of color. Postdoc and REU opportunities should actively recruit scholars of color.
Nomination pools for department awards must be diversified.

Goal 3: Join us in a commitment to accountability and results. We’re eager to evaluate the
data and see which activities are moving the needle. All of us have a stake in building a more
welcoming and representative CLaSP, and we want to be able to have candid conversations when
we fall short of our goals. But for that to happen, the CLaSP community needs to both publicly
set goals and agree upon performance metrics as the future of our department and the ﬁeld as a
whole depends on it. The CLaSP Diversity Allies should hold monthly meetings where anyone in
the department can discuss what DEI efforts we are working on and the progress we’ve made. If
we aren’t able to build a more diverse and representative cadre of leaders in geosciences, then we
will have failed the field, the Michigan community, and each other. We, the undersigned as well
as the CLaSP community, look forward to engaging directly and transparently with the
Department in this ongoing process.

Signed:


2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 minutesTo the Dean of Architecture and Design, Scheri Fultiner, Department Head, Amy Kulper, and the faculty of the Department of Architecture at the Rhode Island School of Design, The Limits of Your Recognition: A Follow-Up Statement in Relation to the Listening Session of June 17th, 2020 with the Rhode Island School of Design’s Administration Regarding the Multitude of Issues brought up and represented by the RISD BIPOC & Student Body in attendance. Sent on Friday, Juneteenth, 2020. Three weeks have passed since the horrific and extralegal killing of George Floyd that has ignited the nation in a movement against police brutality, economic injustice, and the devaluation of Black lives, experiences, and creative knowledge. While the current efforts to bring attention to these issues impregnate our collective consciousness, we can no longer remain ignorant to the fact that the roots of these efforts stem from decades of action against the institutional and systemic injustices endemic to the building of this nation as well as to the practices of architecture, design, and institutions of higher education such as RISD. Consequently, we can no longer ignore the actions of this institution leading up to this moment. The historical lack of accountability for those who have murdered Black people is one that has direct and indisputable parallels to the lack of accountability for the well-being and support of Black and BIPOC students by RISD faculty and administrators. In 2016, Black, BIPOC, queer and other students took on the invisible labor of making explicit their Published by Google Drive – Report Abuse https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 1/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture personal traumas and struggles The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 attending RISD in the Not Your Token protest and The Room of Silence film (Eloise Sherrid). In addition to the egregious lack of forethought your response to the current situation has shown the deafening silence of institutional change beyond further tokenization with which these previous protests were met, and demonstrates a pattern of obstruction and intransigence towards radical transformation against anti-Blackness at RISD. Not only was RISD’s pedagogic response insufficient—a couple of wintersession courses on intersectionality and pedagogy—but the underlying points made evident in the Not Your Token Protests and The Room of Silence film were co-opted by RISD marketing campaigns (Our RISD), effectively undermining and nullifying the opportunity for institutional reflection and transformation that these two acts against systemic injustice offered. RISD’s repeated inaction and inability to recognize its own position, involvement in, and responsibility to dismantle regimes of racial inequity only further demonstrates it’s simultaneous exploitation of Black students when deemed beneficial and self-promoting while erasing the experiences, creativity, and labor of its Black students. This is an unconscionable form of performative allyship. As this historic moment should make abundantly clear, these protests are not about singular events, individual (bad) actors, or unique institutions, but rather are aimed at centuries of systemic oppression against black people designed to ensure their dismissal, dehumanization, and devaluation. RISD is not alone in these acts, but they are endemic to the practices of architecture and design as we know them. This demands that RISD’s Division of Architecture and Design and Department of Architecture acknowledge Architecture as a politically driven discipline in which professed “neutrality” is itself a stance enabling further violence that can no longer be tolerated as tenable and sustainable. As Black and BIPOC students and alumni from the Department of Architecture, we Published by Google Drive – Report Abuse minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 2/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture demand that RISD move beyond The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 performative recognition and take immediate and actionable steps towards consciously dismantling institutionalized anti-Blackness. The following are our recommendations for beginning what will be a continuous and dynamic process: 1. Representation: make legitimate strides to increase the Black Faculty & Student Body from the current 4%. We recommend open design programs and competitions by the institution to appeal to the multitude of prospective artists and students that already exist within Providence and beyond. Your treatment of Black students in the BEB directly affects the perspectives and opinions current and prospective students hear and a true commitment to diversity and inclusion will reflect positively on the department and institution at large. 2. Accessibility: RISD must ensure a support system for disadvantaged students. Break down the barriers to education by providing more scholarship opportunities and TA positions so that student’s work experiences directly benefit them professionally and their studio work does not suffer from their financial need. Black students should have more opportunities to teach and any rejected proposals should have a very clear constructive language that is helpful for the student to edify their future work. Faculty should not be permitted to offer students unpaid internship opportunities, and should also be open to hiring and working with new TAs over the course of the academic year. 3. Acknowledgment: Directly acknowledge the history of Market Square as a slave market and the direct and indirect funding of institutions Published b like By roGoogle Driv wn and ReIS–DRepor fromt Abuse minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 3/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture ventures that capitalised off of The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 Black bodies. Rather than approaching this history with the ambivalence and timidness that the institution currently poses; leverage it as a site for a constant reflection of how society literally capitalizes on Black bodies. We suggest seasonal exhibitions and installations by Black artists campus and city-wide with ample financial and creative support, and in the context of the BEB some seasonal or annual design challenge that allows Black voices to be dominant in a place that was historically dehumanizing. 4. Decentralize: The push to ‘decentralize’ Europe in our education is a promise that the majority of us have heard at some point in our time at RISD. In the context of the architecture department, we believe that promise is more of a claim as we are still not presented with enough content by Black architects. In every course syllabi, precedents and projects by Black architects are still secondary or non-existent and we are no longer content with alternative voices to architectural practice and history being relegated to seminars and sporadic winter session courses. We demand that the architecture department bolsters its commitment to placing alternative voices within our education. Furthermore, these examples should not come from the already archaic and ‘canonized’ meta of the Maghreb, there are multitudes of forgotten, unique, fascinating, and innovative architectural practices outside of the Middle East and Northern Africa and we challenge the respective faculty to take strides in doing research outside their comfort zones. The inclusion of Black voices in course syllabi should be a course requirement and when Published by Google Drive – Report Abuse minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 4/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture the lack of alternative voices is The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 raised, there should be no repercussions to students for doing so. 5. Accountability: The Accountability and assessment of non-Black faculty should be a definite devotion to reviewing and expanding diversity in the educational content not just in the BEB but campus-wide. The labor of this review and assessment should not simply be given to a body of Black staff and faculty but should be pursued and demanded of all faculty in the BEB. 6. Training: Require Art School Specific Diversity Training for Instructors: under the context of art and design learning and practice, we believe that faculty should undergo specific training under these contexts to understand the existence and propagation of microaggressions and racism, consciously or unconsciously in their teaching and critique practices. 7. Design/Build Equity: Create a Policy on Design/Build Projects in which all students have the opportunity to design and all students share the labor of building. There are too many examples of BIPOC being given only labour tasks in group projects and assignments. 8. Sponsorship: Access to tools and resources that support academic and professional growth through sponsorship of Black students to attend one conference per annum (such as AfroTech, NOMA, and other Black-led conferences). The financial support of these initiatives should not be relegated to the CSI, the elevation of minority voices in architecture should be a collaborative effort. Published by Google Drive – Report Abuse minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 5/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture 9. Health: Over the past couple of The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 weeks, discussions with Black students and the larger architecture student body have pointed to our workloads and the minimal promotion of communities and initiatives like NOMAs for their underutilization. The effects of the architecture curriculum and workload on our personal and social lives is not a new subject, and as we mentioned earlier in the letter RISD’s NOMAs chapter gets all their funds from CSI and is not supported directly by the architecture department, and this must change immediately. NOMAs is the primary community in the Architecture Department for BIPOC and our inability to fully utilise this community by virtue of the design of our curriculum and its anaemic support reflects larger issues of mental and social health within the Department of Architecture. 10. Labor: Moving forward, we want the department to understand several things: institutional responses that are no longer acceptable: being “ready to listen,” being “ready to learn,” “opening up the space to…”, these institutional ‘blanket’ responses are not only paternalistic but also avoids accountability by passing the work that needs to be done onto the shoulders of BIPOC. Should the end result of the discourse of this letter be the shifting of responsibility on yet another task force formed purely of Black people and people of color, then the Department of Architecture and RISD would have failed once again. Finally, change the attitude towards discussions of racism, diversity, and inclusion as ‘tasks’ that ‘must be completed’ - the discourse (and changes) that we hope these demands generate should center arPublished b ound the y faGoogle Driv ct that disec–usRepor siont Abuse s on minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 6/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture race, diversity, and inclusion are The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 constant and dynamic. The relegation of these discussions to diversity training days, diversity talks, and sporadic events during Black history month only hinders your capacity to change. Be it at the student-teacher level, to larger conferences with the institution, all interactions concerning race, diversity, and inclusion should be approached head-on with a genuine willingness to have the conversation, the respect to listen to the conversation, and the heart to evaluate what was said against our personal biases and misconceptions no matter how uncomfortable, or from an institutional standpoint, ‘unprofessional’ the conversation may seem. Once again, what we want is action that leads to tangible change. We are open to having more direct conversations with the department, and we emphasize conversations, to expand or clarify the demands we are presenting. We will not, however, be called to defend, curtail, or even apologize for these demands. We are adding our voices to those of our respective colleagues and peers who embraced their trauma and similarly presented their thoughts, feelings and experiences with the institution and we hope that with this letter we can provide the BEB and the RISD some help in tackling the issue at hand. Below are names of Black students and alumni in the Department of Architecture that have contributed to or read this letter urging for the dismantling of anti-Blackness. By signing, they each support this message. Abena Danquah, B.Arch ‘23 Ayotunde Sule, B.Arch ‘23 Charles Ba Oumar, B.Arch ‘23 Clarence Mensah, B.Arch ‘23 Fawz Hussein, B.Arch ‘23 Joshua Coverdale, B. Arch ‘23 Leah Lara, B.Arch ‘23 Mackenzie Luke, B.Arch ‘23 Quincy Casey, B.Arch ‘23 Danasha Kelly, M.Arch ‘22 Elizabeth Mbrokoh-Ewoal, B.Arch ‘22 JaPublished b ckey Robiy nsGoogle Driv on, M.Arceh–‘22Report Abuse minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 7/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture Michael Garel-Martorana, M.Arch ‘22 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 Racquel Clarke, M.Arch ‘22 Tajha Richardson, B.Arch ‘22 Zaiir Talmadge, B.Arch ‘22 Zoe Alli, B.Arch ‘22 Teisha Bradley, M.Arch ‘21 Alexa Thorne, B.Arch ‘20 Laurence von Lingau, B.Arch ‘20 Christina B. Schaller, M.Arch ‘18 Chloe Jensen, M.Arch ‘16 Malcolm Rio, M.Arch, ‘15, AICAD Teaching Fellow ‘15 Below are names of Black and non Black students, alumni, and affiliated allies within and outside of the Department of Architecture that stand in solidarity with us in dismantling anti-Blackness. By signing, each supports our statement. Megan Holzrichter, B.Arch ‘24 Samuel leung, B.Arch ‘24 Caleb Callaway, Industrial Design ‘23 Deji Eclarin, B.Arch '23 Dorthy Zhang, Illustration ‘23 Ioanna Athanasopoulou, B.Arch ‘23 Jack Kostyshen, B.Arch ‘23 JaLeel Porcha, Photography ‘23 Karas Cowger, B.Arch ‘23 Ken Zheng, Industrial Design ‘23 Michaela Shuster, Textiles ‘23 Min-Wei Ang, B.Arch ‘23 Nat Luo, Textiles + Illustration ‘23 Sarah Goldman, B.Arch ‘23 Sarah Khadraoui, Textiles ‘23 Shreya Kaipa, B.Arch ‘23 Zane Abu Hamdan, B.Arch ‘23 Zenona Darrow, Textiles ‘23 Aastha Kannan, Film/ Animation/ Video ‘22 Adèle Roncey, Graphic Design ‘22 Alexandra Watson, Illustration ‘22 Amy Qu, Industrial Design ‘22 Andrew Wang, Illustration ‘22 Angela Lobel, Industrial Design ‘22 Anna Van Ness, Jewelry + Metalsmithing ‘22 Avantika Velho, Industrial Design ‘22 Cade Shuck, Industrial Design ‘22 Caitlin Dippo, M.Arch ‘22 Caroline Lippincott, M.Arch ‘22 Carolyn van Artsdalen, Painting '22 Chris Shen, Illustration ‘22 Cindy Qiao, Textiles ‘22 Connie Cheng, Industrial Design ‘22 Corina Dorrego, Painting ‘22 Daniel Fidoten, Furniture ‘22 DaPublished b nte Cioffoy leGoogle Driv tti, Textilese ‘–22Report Abuse minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 8/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture David Auerbach, M.Arch ‘22 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 David Davila, M.Arch ‘22 Deniz Kutay, B.Arch ‘22 Elena Aguirre, Illustration ‘22 Elise Young, M.Arch ‘22 Emma Florence, Painting ‘22 Evan Hildebrandt, Graphic Design ‘22 Georgina Bronheim, ‘22 Henry Bohan, Painting ‘22 Julia Nunez, Illustration ‘22 Julie Egresitz, Graphic Design ‘22 Jose Mata, M.Arch ‘22 Kate Felderman, Textiles ‘22 Kelly Phan, Graphic Design ‘22 Louis Hand, Industrial Design ‘22 Maggie Chang, Sculpture ‘22 Manmeet Sodhi, Graphic Design ‘22 Mindy Kang, Textiles ‘22 Nadine El Nesr, Apparel ‘22 Natalie Rizk, M.Arch ‘22 Natyana Fonseca, Textiles ‘22 Perri Litke, Illustration ‘22 Peter Mankiw, Textiles ‘22 Ruihan Li, Industrial Design ‘22 Sage Jennings, Painting ‘22 Sarah Tanikawa, Textiles ‘22 Shelly Nieto, Textiles ‘22 Sophia Shin, Painting ‘22 Sophie Curlee, Textiles ‘22 Tania Estrada, M.Arch ‘22 Truman Lesak, Graphic Design ‘22 Tyler Lovejoy, M.Arch ‘22 Wendy Chao, Graphic Design ‘22 William Blythe, Film/ Animation/ Video ‘22 Xiao Yu Kang, Graphic Design ‘22 Bella Carlos, Illustration ‘21 Carol Demick, Illustration + Industrial Design ‘21 Dorian Epps, Industrial Design ‘21 Enrico Giori, B.Arch ‘21 Eunice Hong, Graphic Design ‘21 Felicita Devlin, Textiles ‘21 Fia Tharpe, Painting ‘21 Gabriel Durst, Film/ Animation/ Video ‘21 Grace Chang, Printmaking ‘21 Jen Chenyu Zhang, B.Arch ‘21 Kaija Harrison, Film/ Animation/ Video '21 Katherine Fliegel, Illustration ‘21 Kathryn Li, Illustration ‘21 Louis Fisher, BFA ‘21 Lucy Freedman, Furniture ‘21 Nadia Wolff, Textiles ‘21 Natalie Rivera, Film/ Animation/ Video ‘21 Noah Shipley, B.Arch ‘21 Owen Swischuk, Industrial Design ‘21 Pamela Fernandez, Textiles ‘21 Published by Google Drive – Report Abuse Piper Matthew, B.Arch ‘21 minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 9/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture Sarah Burashed, M.Arch ‘21 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 Stephanie Wu, Illustration ‘21 Timothy Prieto, Interior Architecture '21 Tracy Go, B.Arch ‘21 Victoria Shu-Wen Liang, B.Arch ‘21 Yasmine Alaoui, B.Arch ‘21 Zhixin Shou, B.Arch ‘21 Alex Nickolson, Illustration ‘20 Alexandra Venegas, Furniture ‘20 Anya Drozd, B.Arch ‘20 Avril Teo, B.Arch ‘20 Benjamin Han, B.Arch ‘20 Cali Hetfield, Furniture ‘20 Diyi Zhang, BFA ‘20 Ece Cetin, B.Arch ‘20 Eleni Contis, B.Arch ‘20 Hannah Thalmann, Printmaking ‘20 James Gately, Illustration ‘20 Jasmine Jalinous, B.Arch ‘20 Joyce Kim, B.Arch ‘20 Liz Parler, M.Arch ‘20 Natasha Brennan, Illustration ‘20 Olivia Shen, Apparel ‘20 Rebecca Gonzales Morales, Industrial Design ‘20 Reishan McIntosh, B.Arch ‘20 Sam Wesselman, M.Arch ‘20 Sophie Chien, B.Arch ‘20 T Deutch, M.Arch ‘20 Wei Xiao, B.Arch '20 Yunchao Le, B.Arch ‘20 Anabeth Bostrup, BFA ‘19 Elaine Lopez, Graphic Design ‘19 Hannah Winders, M.Arch ‘19 Karin Hosteller, M.Arch ‘19 Louna Bou Ghanem, B.Arch ‘19 Ramon Solis, Landscape Architecture ‘19 Vuthy Lay, B.Arch ‘19 Diego Fernandez Morales, B.Arch ‘18 Jessica Wilson, Landscape Architecture ‘18 Jhanani Palanisamy, M.Arch ‘18 Joseph Echavarria, M.Arch ‘18 Marco Aguirre, B.Arch ‘18 Nick Meehan, B.Arch ‘18 Nicola Ho, B.Arch’18 Rob Diaz-Vicente, M.Arch ‘18 Sage Dumont, B.Arch ‘18 Sanjana Shiroor, B.Arch ‘18 Utē Petit, Textiles + Industrial Design ‘18 Frank Gonzalez-Corr, B.Arch '17 Joshua da Silva, B. Furniture ‘17 Kelsey Wakefield, Landscape Architecture 17’ Neethi Abraham, BFA ‘17 Rahul Ghera, M.Arch ‘17 Sarp Arditi, B.Arch ‘17 Tristan Wright, Film/ Animation/ Video ‘17Published by Google Drive – Report Abuse minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 10/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture Tyler Mills, BArch ‘17 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 Zoë Ritts, M.Arch ‘17 Amer Musa, B.Arch ‘16 Anna Mouraleva, B.Arch ‘16 Anshika Lal, Industrial Design ‘16 Ariel Resnick, MArch '16 Becca McGee Sturgeon, M.Arch ‘16 Brandon Wang, B.Arch ‘16 Chris Beck, M.Arch ‘16 Clarisse Empaynado, M.Arch ‘16 Connie Wang, B.Arch ‘16 Elise Mortensen, Printmaking ‘16 Eloise Sherrid, Film/ Animation/ Video ‘16 Erin Graham, M.Arch ‘16 Griffin Boswell, Textiles ‘16 Hannah Bigelesien, Printmaking ‘16 Ian Theriault-Shay, B.Arch ‘16 Ipek Karaoglu Koksalan, B.Arch ‘16 Jasmine Hwang, Interior Architecture '16 Lucas Vasilko, Photography ‘16 Sarah Hadianti, B.Arch ‘16 Zoe Clark, Textiles ‘16 Aaron Tobey, M.Arch ‘15 Alanna Reeves, Illustration ‘15 Austin Blanks, M.Arch ‘15 Colin Wiencek, Furniture ‘15 Dane Clark, M.Arch ‘15 Danielle Glynn, Film/Animation/Video ‘15 Emily Neilson, Film/Animation/Video ‘15 Jordan Rich, Graphic Design ‘15 Katie Solien, B.Arch ‘15 Michelle Munive, Interior Architecture ‘15 Nic Der, Industrial Design ‘15 Nicole Chiu, B.Arch ‘15 Paige Mehrer, Illustration ‘15 Peter Borges, Industrial Design ‘15 Rami Hammour, M.Arch ‘15 Rebecca Commissaris, B.Arch ‘15 Sama Saket, B.Arch ‘15 Shou Jie Eng, M.Arch ‘15 Zach Salinger-Simonson, Painting ‘15 Branche Coverdale, Illustration ‘14 Eliot Bassett-Cann, B.Arch ‘14 Frederick Meatyard, Landscape Architecture ‘14 Max Scoppettone, Landscape Architecture ‘14 Ben Peterson, M.Arch ‘09 Isaac Gertman, Graphic Design ‘07 Cortez West III, Supporter Gabriela Enid Dávila, Harvard GSD Jen Wood, Supporter Jeremy Benson, Harvard GSD Jonathan Brearley, MIT Noor Abdullah, Supporter Published by Google Drive – Report Abuse minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 11/12 2/1/2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture Sheida Soleimani, AICAD Teaching The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D…Updated automatically every 5 Fellow ‘15 Yingshuet Lam, Supporter Xiao Yu Kang, Supporter The below names of organizations that stand in solidarity with our statement. BAAD E-Board, 2020-2021 NOMAS E-Board, 2020-2021 RISD AIAS, 2020 - 2021 RISD Mango Street, 2020-2021 Published by Google Drive – Report Abuse minuteshttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vQOJCqfs62hajaijnwVVapmUQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7sWlriBlnIMTuf-vNQiDbmrIbJbH3cBDKlS6/pub 12/12 
Black Lives Matter. A Commitment to Action from UCI ESS Faculty and Graduate Student Leaders Dear ESS family, In collaboration with grad students and faculty, we send our strong statement of solidarity and long-term commitment to ending anti-Black racism. This commitment is a starting point meant to initialize a continued dialogue and, through our actions, to move the ESS department in a direction of anti-racism. We intend this letter to be revised as we learn and hear more of the voices and needs of the community served by ESS. First of all, where we stand: Black Lives Matter. We are heartbroken and outraged by the continued anti-Black racism and police brutality in this country, including in our local area. We recognize that many of us continue to benefit from white privilege, while other members of our ESS community have faced discrimination, microaggressions, overt racism, and police brutality to an extent that many of us cannot fully understand. We acknowledge that the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were not isolated instances; that the officers responsible are not anomalies within an otherwise functioning law enforcement system, and we stand in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement against these injustices. Lastly, we acknowledge that systemic racism and implicit biases are pervasive in academia, and we recognize our responsibility to change that system. Second, what we are committing to: ● We are committed to amplifying Black voices in science. These actions can include ESS seminars, curricula, social media, and department events. We will increase our seminar invitations to Black scientists. We will make efforts to recognize more Black researchers in our undergraduate and graduate courses. We will expand our curriculum and encourage discussion of relevant environmental and climate justice issues during our courses and seminars. We will regularly feature Black scientists and their research on our website, on social media, and in other venues. ● We are committing to increasing efforts to recruit and retain Black students, researchers, and faculty. We remain committed to our mission of creating an equitable, diverse, and inclusive community within the ESS department at all levels. We have ongoing efforts, yet we acknowledge that we still have a long way to go. Black scholars remain underrepresented among the ESS faculty and student population, as well as in the broader geoscience community. We commit to increasing efforts to recruit and support Black students, including through our participation in programs such as the AGU Bridge Program and the UC-HBCU Initiative, through outreach to underserved K-12 schools, community colleges, and minority serving institutions, and through mentorship programs and UCI programs such as DECADE. We will work to ensure that everyone within ESS can receive training in implicit bias and mentoring. We will continually monitor and seek to improve our graduate admission and faculty hiring processes to follow best practices based on diversity and equity research. Third, we acknowledge the intersectionality of Blackness with other aspects of identity. The above stances and commitments shall be broadened where relevant to other underrepresented minorities (URMs) and people of color in STEM.● For seminars, we will aim for at least one seminar per quarter to focus on community engagement in addition to science. ● For social media and scientific events, we will feature URM scientists and celebrate specific communities especially during relevant times such as Black History Month, Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, Hispanic Heritage Month, Native American Heritage Month, Women’s History Month, LGBTQ+ Pride Month, etc. ● For our undergraduate and graduate curricula, we encourage instructors to incorporate elements of anti-racism into each course where relevant to the scientific material, including perspectives from impacted communities, discussion of inequities, and texts/media from minority voices. In the coming months, we will compile relevant articles, case studies, and teaching materials that can be utilized by ESS instructors. ● In addition, we encourage everyone to evaluate how their research impacts disenfranchised communities, incorporates aspects of environmental and climate justice, and engages with affected community members in the process of research. ● In Fall 2020, we will teach a graduate seminar course (ESS 280A) dedicated to diversity and inclusion in STEM. One goal of this course will be to develop a draft code of principles for anti-racist teaching, research, and community engagement in ESS. ● Above all, we commit to listening to and learning from our community, including undergraduate and graduate students, researchers, faculty, and staff. Fourth, we want to share the resources and reporting structures available to anyone who experiences racism or other forms of discrimination on campus. The Office of Equal Opportunity and Diversity has reporting information, including an anonymous option. Other resources include CARE and DECADE, as well as faculty and staff in ESS if you are comfortable: ● Kathleen Johnson, Vice Chair of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ● Isabella Velicogna, Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, Equity, and Inclusion ● Kate Mackey, DECADE faculty mentor ● Melanie Nakanishi, Student Affairs Manager ● Eric Rignot, Chair Finally, support groups and other resources are available through the UCI Center for Black Cultures, Resources, and Research. Fifth, we recognize that individuals within our community may want to take additional actions. Here are some ideas and resources: ● Support and donate to organizations fighting anti-Black racism. ● Educate ourselves, our families, and our friends: Listen, read, learn, advocate for change, apologize when we make mistakes, repeat. ● Think carefully about how we seek police aid in our daily lives, acknowledging the potential to endanger Black people and other POC. ● Show up. As of this message, peaceful demonstrations are occurring in most cities daily, including in Irvine. ● Diversify our social media feeds; follow and share Black voices. ● Speak out and write to decision-makers about systemic injustice; support science-based policies to combat police brutality; demand police accountability, including for the UCIPD. ● Educate ourselves about diversity, equity, and inclusive excellence; root out anti-Black racism, injustice, and barriers that are pervasive within academia, including at UC Irvine.● Vote in local, state, and federal elections. Signed, Kathleen R. Johnson, Associate Professor and Vice-Chair of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Eric Rignot, Chair, Donald Bren and Chancellor's Professor of Earth System Science, and NAS Member Isabella Velicogna, Professor and Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, Equity, and Inclusion Mathieu Morlighem, Associate Professor and Vice-Chair of Undergraduate Studies Jin-Yi Yu, Professor and Vice-Chair of Graduate Studies Steven Allison, Professor of ESS and EEB, Director of Ridge to Reef Graduate Training Program James Randerson, Ralph J. and Carol M. Cicerone Professor and NAS Member Katherine Mackey, Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor and DECADE Faculty Mentor Shane Coffield and Shivani Ehrenfeucht, PhD Candidates and DECADE student representatives Robert Fofrich, Audrey Odwuor, and Nicola Wiseman, PhD Candidates/Students and Graduate Student Representatives Julie Ferguson, Associate Teaching Professor Elizabeth Crook, Assistant Teaching Professor Michael Pritchard, Associate Professor Saewung Kim, Associate Professor Charlie Zender,Professor Eric Saltzman, Professor Gudrun Magnusdottir, Professor Ellen Druffel, Fred Kavli Chair in Earth System Science, Distinguished Professor of ESS, and NAS Member Benis Egoh, Assistant Professor Michael Goulden, Professor Susan Trumbore, Professor and NAS Member Alex Guenther, Professor Paulo Brando, Assistant Professor Claudia Czimzik, Associate Professor Steve Davis, Associate Professor Francois Primeau, Professor Michael Prather, Professor Adam Martiny, Professor of ESS and EEB Murat Aydin, Associate Researcher Efi Foufoula-Georgiou Henry Samueli Endowed Chair, Distinguished Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering and ESS, member of NAYannick Peings, Assistant Researcher Keith Moore, Professor
Student Response Letter Jan. 2021

Departmental Communication Appendix

Short Guides External to the Grad Handbook that could be created:
1. Funding Options and Opportunities
a. Departmental Fellowships — Information for both grads and undergrads and
where to look for this information.
b. Paid Grad Positions
i. Seminar Speaker Coordinator, CSE Graduate Coordinator, Prospective
Graduate Visit Weekend Coordinator
ii. Amount paid for each, how to inquire about each position, and job
descnpﬂon.

2. List of Departmental Courses and How They are Offered (yearly/semesterly/by faculty
availability?) and List of Relevant Departments to Consider for Additional Course
Offerings

3. Department Committees and their Leaders.

a. How to get involved

4. Accounting Frequently Asked Questions

a. E.g., Reimbursements, P—Cards, etc.
Package Pickup and Shipping Guide
External Departments Relevant for Collaboration, Course Offerings, etc.
Field Camp Guide / Classes that require camping gear
Courses with Extra Fees
Student Fees Each Semester

a. Including what will be covered by the department or college and when.

$090.”???

15


Gisselle Cortez Undergraduate, UCLA International Development Studies


Additional Resources and Reading

1. Boys and Girls Club of Dane County:

https://WWW.bgcdc.org/programs/school—based—programs
2. UW— Madison Precollege Enrichment Opportunity Program for Learning Excellence:

https://peopleprogram.wisc.edu/
3. WISELI ‘Breaking the Bias Habit’ workshop:

https://Wiseli.wisc.edu/workshops/bbh—inclusive—campus/
4. UNEION 101 syllabus and materials:

htt s: www.ucar.edu Who—we—are diversit —inclusion communit —resources uneion—101

5. Project Implicit: https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/takeatest.html
Trujillo, G. & K.D. Tanner. Considering the role of affect in learning: Monitoring students’

 

self—efficacy, sense of belonging, and science identity. Lz'ﬁ Sciences Education. 2017; 13(1).
https://doi.org/10. 1 187/cbe.13—12—0241


Dear Earth and Environmental Sciences Faculty, Thank you for your response to our antiracism action letter. We recognize the process of enacting change in our department and our university will be a continual project, and we wanted to continue this process by responding to your letter. We hope that as we move through this process, we can keep the lines of communication open and facilitate a dialogue between students and faculty. We were encouraged by your thorough response to our original letter; however, we feel that there is more work to be done. We have noticed and appreciate programs that the department has already set in action, such as the planned department presence at SACNAS; the department’s participation in the AGU Bridge program; the elimination of the GRE in the graduate application process; and the consideration of community-engaged research and scholarship in the tenure review process. Still, we feel that the faculty response neglected some important issues, either through the omission of specific plans to remedy them or by characterizing them as impossible to act on in the short term. The purpose of this letter, then, is to highlight these issues and push for concrete plans that can be implemented in the near future. It serves both as a response to the faculty letter and as a further articulation of our experiences in the department. While we as a student body understand that we must be a part of any change enacted in the department, we ask for a response from the faculty that goes beyond statements of support. We ask that all faculty be involved in planning these changes and that they take part in the action alongside students. We emphasize that this work must be taken on by all faculty; it cannot just fall on the shoulders of a few overburdened allies. The remainder of this letter highlights specific problems we feel deserve a more detailed response in an attempt to move our conversation around these issues towards a more organized, action-oriented format. We ask that the faculty begin to incorporate issues of Indigenous sovereignty and History and Environmental Justice (EJ) into the Earth Science curriculum, highlighting the ways these issues intersect with more traditional geoscience subjects. We ask that the faculty push themselves toward more inclusive teaching, especially during times when students must face the challenges of online learning. We ask that the department continue to overhaul its approach to field courses with the aim of removing the barriers these courses impose on many students. Finally, we ask that the faculty communicate with the students as they move forward with these changes, ensuring that all members remain a cohesive unit. We hope to discuss this letter with you during an upcoming facilitated conversation between students and faculty and work alongside you as we continue to try and build a more equitable department.Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 1. (Indigenous) EJ Issues, Native Histories and Tribal Sovereignty We are disappointed that the department believes the inclusion of Indigenous sovereignty and environmental justice (EJ) in its curriculum and degree programs is impractical and impossible at this time. We recognize that these changes require considerable dialogue and time, but we believe this issue should be top priority within the department regardless. We recognize that all faculty are significantly stressed and exhausted from the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly those who have taken on additional family care responsibilities. We also recognize that issues of EJ have many specificities resulting from complex (albeit non-mutually exclusive) histories of settler colonialism, anti-Blackness, and other forms of white supremacy that require critical analyses. Still, we ask faculty to commit to the following goals now and take action within their current abilities to learn more about EJ issues and struggles, build relationships with scholars across the UMN system with relevant expertise, and make small changes to their courses and our degree programs each year just as they regularly update courses with new scientific advances. Our Responsibilities on Dakota Land The University of Minnesota Twin Cities occupies the traditional (and contemporary) homelands of the Dakota people as a land-grant university. The establishment and the functions of this institution, including our department and the Minnesota Geological Suvery, were made possible through legacies of settler colonialism, land theft, genocide (and dispossession) of the Dakota, the Očhéthi Šakówiŋ, the Ojibwe and other American Indian tribal nations and communities who have called Mni Sota Makoce (Minnesota) home (Lass 1992; Lee and Ahtone 2020). Furthermore, our department, the institution and the formal geoscience discipline, were made possible through histories of anti-Black state violence: American University and Collegiate systems were and are still today complicit in regulating, maintaining, and defending settler property that was acquired through the enslavement of Black people, the theft of Native land, and the genocide of Indigenous peoples (Wilder 2013; Yusoff 2018). In addition to occupying stolen Dakota homelands, our department is situated in a settler colonial nation-state that enacts systemic and militarized forms of anti-Black violence and disproportionately subjects communities of color (particularly BIPOC communities) to the health hazards of environmental pollutants and toxins. In the wake of George Floyd’s murder, countless historical (and ongoing) struggles for Black life and liberation and the recent coup attempt at the Capitol by nationalist neo-Nazis, we find it imperative and non-negotiable that our department reconcile its place as a beneficiary of white supremacy, anti-Black violence and the dispossession and genocide of Native peoples. Furthermore, the legacies and day-to-day activities of the UMN TC, our department, and the MGS still remain predicated on these inseparable histories. As members of this land-grant university and in recognition of the how we are implicated in these histories and legacies of violence (i.e. the ways that we benefit from and/ or participate in the erasure of these histories), we share imperative obligation(s) to the Dakota, whose lands were stolen, obtained through especially violent, fraudulent means and are now currently maintained for the purposes of upholding settler interests and sustaining the UMN TC’s functions. For these reasons and in response to faculty concerns over the logistics and (in)feasibility of implementing these changes, we maintain our initial demands and visions for more inclusive and critically informed 1Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 teaching strategies, curriculum, pedagogies, research methods and relationship-building practices that account for and (re)center Native histories, issues and epistemologies, and just as importantly (re)prioritize our relations with Minnesota tribal nations. We will continue to seek these changes as long as our department benefits at the expense of the Dakota, the Očhéthi Šakówiŋ and the Anishinaabe peoples. Taking Action In this section, we offer some proposals and possibilities to both address faculty concerns over the perceived impracticality and/or inability of (re)centering or including course material on Native and Black EJ struggles, histories and issues and further advocate for more critical and informed departmental curriculum, functions and teaching practices. We request that our faculty become even more informed about Native and Black histories, issues and EJ struggles AND in turn hold other department members and students accountable for doing the same. We further suggest and ask that this be done through increased faculty collaboration, communication and networking with American Indian, First-Nation and other Indigenous scholars, scientists, experts and activists who are currently and for decades have been doing cutting edge (interdisciplinary) work on the intersection(s) between Native sovereignty rights, histories of settler colonialism, geography, the epidemic of violence against Native women in the US and Canada, Native traditional ecological knowledge systems (TEK) and climate change, environmental policy, Native EJ struggles, biotechnology (and sustainable energy) development projects and other environmental science-related issues. We call for increased coordination and communication with the UMN TC’s Department of American Indian Studies, whose members not only specialize in and teach undergraduate and graduate courses on Native history, Indigenous TEK systems, Federal Indian policy, and Indigenous environmental issues but also participate in and organize talks, seminars and workshops that foreground this work. We anticipate that this will not only solve the issue of logistics and inability to teach about these issues within the department but also provide faculty and other department members opportunities to (re)tend to community and university relations and become even more informed about or familiar with these issues in ways where these complicated (and often fraught) issues can be critically situated and done justice by experts on those topics. These efforts will in turn further improve upon, critically inform, and/ or (re)shape Earth Science methodologies, practices, pedagogies, curriculum and work. At the very least, we envision that our department members will seek out resources and opportunities to become more informed about the history of Mni Sota Makoce and the land which the UMN TC occupies AND just as importantly, hold each other and our students accountable for doing the same through promoting, sharing and circulating relevant events, resources and material. We envision that faculty members will be committed to: 1. Sharing and promoting resources that include (but are not limited to) UMN TC Dept. of American Indian Studies classes and readings (particularly on Dakota and Očhéthi Šakówiŋ histories) AND that this material be promoted/ shared in EarthSci curriculum, department newsletter(s), on the new department website and/ or through department-wide or in-class announcements. 2Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 2. Building meaningful partnerships across the UMN TC campus, the greater UMN system and the wider Twin-Cities community with experts on Indigenous EJ-related issues, Native histories and general EJ-related struggles. 3. Adjusting curriculum in ways that (re)center and engage with tribally and/ or nationally specific Native epistemologies, histories and EJ-related issues. 4. Attending seminars, workshops and/ or informative events on issues relating to decolonization, Indigenous EJ struggles, Indigenous TEK systems, tribal sovereignty and Native history, particularly but not limited to events hosted by the Dept. of American Indian Studies and the Institute for Advanced Studies. 5. Recognizing and explicitly addressing the values embedded in the science we teach and their material implications for BIPOC communities. This might look like critically assessing the legacy of the Army Corps of Engineers within the contexts of Environmental (In)justice towards impacted tribal nations or the development of more “sustainable” energy biotechnology with regards to Indigenous communities in introductory ESCI course labs and case studies. 6. Issuing/ providing comprehensive land acknowledgements that include Indigenous place names, histories, and current EJ issues in preparation for and/ or during field trips. 7. Further explore, research and acknowledge the intersections between Geoscience and EJ, potentially starting with our suggested reading list (Appendix). 3Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 2. Inclusive teaching As stated in the faculty response letter, the department encourages faculty to proactively use student-centered pedagogy and recognizes participation of faculty members in CEI trainings, consultations and workshops in annual reviews. A growing body of literature demonstrates that inclusive teaching and other student-centered learning practices improve learning for all students and, critically, can help to reduce the achievement gap for students from underrepresented groups. In order to fulfill the department’s vision statement of being “global and regional leaders in Earth Science research and education” we must commit to inclusive teaching practices in order to enhance diversity, equity, and inclusion in our department. The January Classroom Inclusivity Retreat is a meaningful step that builds momentum for regular inclusive teaching seminars and workshops in this department. However, there is also an individual responsibility on each faculty member, staff member, and instructor to actively practice inclusive teaching. Based on our experiences in ESCI classes, STEM education literature, and CEI teaching workshops, we recommend the practices listed below to help foster more inclusive classrooms, both online and in person, as well as a more inclusive department. 1. Take responsibility for routinely practicing inclusive strategies in the classroom (and department) by having an open and welcoming attitude with students. Acknowledge that you, the instructor, will need to go beyond “doing what worked last time” in a class to add inclusive teaching practices. Be aware of trauma and poverty informed pedagogy and be ready to refer students to the resources available on and off campus to assist students. 2. Interrogate your content for bias, colonialism, and racism. Include the intersection of science and society, particularly environmental justice in class content (see section 1). 3. Use good course design principles by aligning your course (e.g. CEI’s aims, assessments, activities, atmosphere): a. Academically: create clear, well crafted learning objectives (aims) (both for content mastery and skills mastery) for your course, make sure all classroom activities and assessments (exams, assignment, projects ect.) align with the learning objectives and scaffold big projects over the semester. Utilize the CEI consultations for help designing and implementing these changes. b. Pedagogically/Inclusively (atmosphere): incorporate diversity in your learning objectives, make an inclusive classroom environment, and incorporate content that includes diverse perspectives and have options for diverse assessments 4. Have a high quality syllabus that is inclusive, sets clear expectations, set an example of the tone/atmosphere for the class and meets all UMN requirements a. Examples of good practices are: Use a personal tone with first person pronouns and address the students (e.g. “you”) directly, include the required disability statements and have a personal diversity statement that reflects your personal progress with diversity and inclusivity and how you will value diversity in the class. 5. Accept all students for who they are and their lived experiences and interests at the intersection of science and community (local and global). Provide space for students to exhibit their lived knowledge into their classroom work (DOI: 10.1002/tia2.20071). (also related to section 1) 4Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 Since outlining the above practices, the 2020 Higher Learning Commission, Annual Progress Reports (APR) for our department was sent out and Section II of the APR outlines some specific actions that are very similar to or would help implement the above practices we suggest as ESCI students. The actions listed in the APR are from a broader student survey that summarizes what was effective for online learning last semester. We affirm the report statement: “it is worth listening carefully to [the APR] recommendations for short- and long-term remote learning and perhaps adopting them as guidelines for instruction within our department.” Additionally, we provide the above practices, listed actions below, and links in this section as resources for all instructors to utilize. While some of these suggestions from ESCI students and Section IIB of the APR will require a more systematic (and time intensive) interrogation of course content and teaching strategies, many actions can be implemented this semester, and are particularly important to enact while teaching online. Progress can be made if instructors commit to trying at least a few of the following for Spring 2021 (also see the APR section IIA): ● Acknowledge that we are still in an extraordinary, difficult situation and establish a spirit of empathy and collective learning ● Be an approachable, helpful, empathetic instructor ● Prioritize student learning over covering content by focusing on the core ideas of the class ● Ask for student feedback (early and mid semester) and then communicate with students about how you will act on their feedback and why you cannot if you cannot ● Add in flexibility for all students in some deadlines, attendance, assessments (e.g. drop one assignment per semester) ect. without asking for any documentation/verification or reasoning ● Provide resources for students to learn the material and predictive for an exam. (e.g. practice problems with solved answers, study guides, learning aids like e-flash card decks, practice exams, review sessions, working through problems in class) ● Include rubrics for assessments that are clear, concise and that align with the learning objectives ● Be aware of and avoid cognitive overload of students (amplify essential content, communicate consciously, use active learning, allow collaboration among students) ● Increase accessibility by using both visuals (diagrams and charts) and verbal descriptions including “thinking out loud” through a worked problem and descriptions of the images, charts and graphs. ● Address current events with your class and acknowledge how events may be affecting student stress and productivity. ● Plan to be flexible with the class schedule, content and assessments to accommodate and reduce student stress ● Incorporate informal icebreakers and conversational check-ins the first few minutes of class to build a community and familiarity among students and instructors. Consider adding breakout rooms, doing example problems solved as a group with annotations, or quick polls within class time to encourage participation online. 5Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 While these actions and responsibilities apply to individual classes and instructors, we, as a department community, can support students by continuing to attend seminars/retreats in order to learn how to implement inclusive teaching practices, incorporate Native perspectives and environmental justice content into classes, and discuss the development of inclusive field courses. 6Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 3. Departmental Field Experiences We would first like to acknowledge the hard work of the Undergraduate Studies Committee and the Field Committee to provide innovative field-based experiential learning to students. Experiential learning is an extremely important part of geoscience curriculum, and field courses have historically been an opportunity for students to experience geologic concepts "in their natural habitat" and bring the equations and theory they have learned in the classroom to life in the field. While field courses are effective at providing these experiences for many students, the physical requirements, location, and environment of the currently offered field courses create fundamental inequities that directly contribute to the lack of diversity in the geosciences. We feel strongly that it is essential to address these inequities, and hope that this can be the beginning of many discussions on these topics so we can move towards our mutual goal of providing valuable experiential learning opportunities to all students in the Department. We therefore divide our thoughts on field experiences into two parts. The first part is "immediate" goals that we would like to work towards meeting within the Spring semester so that they can impact the upcoming Summer 2021 Field courses. We propose directly linking to the summer field course page on the website to the major/minor page on the website. We recognize (and appreciate!) the work that is ongoing in the Field Committee to address many of these topics and hope that these suggestions can provide additional ideas and guidance. This page is currently undergoing revision, and we recommend it include the following information: ● Learning objectives for each course, including: ○ Summary of skills that will be mastered by the end of each course. ○ Recommended courses to be completed or skills to be mastered before each field course. ● Explicit description of costs (including "hidden" costs like gear purchases) as well as financial aid and scholarship information. ○ Link to gear list being collated by undergrad Geoclub members. ○ Link to scholarship information elsewhere on Department website. ○ Link to gear rental and purchase opportunities through the University and Department. ● The physical requirements and training recommendations (e.g. weight of gear carried, distance hiked, altitude) required for a successful experience. ● Provide resources for students to gain outdoor experiences and confidence prior to the start of the course. ○ Trips and clinics offered by UMN Outdoor Center. ○ Link to REI intro camping resources or other sources. ● Specific information about the housing and dining provided during each course, including: ○ Explicit description of the process of grouping students for housing purposes that is sensitive to the identity and desires of transgender, non-binary, and genderqueer students. ○ Explicit description of accommodations made for dietary restrictions. 7Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 ○ Explicit description of accommodations made for religious or cultural observances. ● A statement that acknowledges the risk of identity prejudice against certain individuals in the fieldwork setting, and explicit description of the procedures by which these incidents can be reported and will be dealt with. ○ Link to the Department Field Code of Conduct. ● Description of the formalized process for requesting to participate in an alternate program. ○ Deadline for submitting a course for approval. ○ State general requirements of the alternative program with respect to length, rigor, and material covered. ○ List alternative projects or programs for students who were unable to participate in the residential field course(s) currently offered. We feel that publicizing and sharing this information with undergraduates would improve the preparedness of students entering the Department and help demystify the "field experience." Explicitly stating the learning goals of each field course will streamline approval of alternative courses and provide guidance for students who need to request an alternate project. We request that the Field Committee familiarize themselves with the strategies for minimizing risk during fieldwork set forth in Demery and Pipkin (2021) and implement these strategies within each field course’s design. (Demery, AJ.C., Pipkin, M.A. Safe fieldwork strategies for at-risk individuals, their supervisors and institutions. Nat Ecol Evol 5, 5–9 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41559-020-01328-5) We request the Field and Undergraduate Studies Committees create a procedure for resolving an "incomplete" field course. These alternatives, communicated to students ahead-of-time, help provide reassurance to students who may become injured or have a family emergency (for example), and create less burden on the field course instructors and TAs who would otherwise have to develop these procedures on their own. We request that the Department create a fund to assist students with unforeseen costs when they leave field courses due to the above described or other emergencies. We are disappointed in the response from the Department with respect to the creation of a "gear closet" that would provide gear for field trips, field courses, or research. We do not feel that general support for this idea with vague provisos for someone coming up with a "stable plan" is an adequate response. We therefore propose that the oversight of the gear closet be made a graduate student job. This job would be structured similarly to how the Outreach Coordinator and Student Symposium jobs are allocated, with overlapping two-year commitments for two to four graduate students that creates continuity within this position. We appreciate and are encouraged by the DEI Committee’s work with Columbia to develop a pro-deal for purchasing discounted gear as well as communication to students about the opportunity to purchase or rent gear through the UMN Outdoor Center. We request that information about these opportunities be prominently posted within the Department and on the website, and regularly advertised to students participating in field experiences. 8Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 As a long-term goal for the Department, we would like the Department to consider the efficacy, accessibility, and equity of exclusively summer-based, residential field courses versus remote or local alternatives, and alternatives that occur over winter or during the semester. Acknowledging the financial and logistical complexities involved, we request that the Department prioritise the development of field experiences outside of traditional residential field courses, such as class or departmental field trips or additional courses. We are excited to collaborate within the Department to develop field skills course(s), shorter camping trips offered department-wide, and other opportunities for experiential, field-based learning. The Urban Field Course currently being developed is an excellent example of the kind of innovation that we see as an opportunity to expand the participation of all persons in geosciences. This kind of non-residential, "workday" field course broadens participation by allowing participants to continue part-time work in the evenings and weekends, care for their families, and continue to participate in cultural and religious events in their communities. We request that the department continue to support the development of this course and proactively seek out the resources and partnerships necessary for it to be successful. The virtual field courses developed for Summer 2020 are another example of the kind of innovation we are excited about, and we hope that the Department continues to develop and offer GIS-based, digital "field" experiences, both in individual courses and as part of the summer field courses. Finally, we would like the Field Committee to consider allowing undergraduate students to participate in NSF-funded Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REUs) or other formal research experiences by creating flexibility in field course scheduling and implementation. These REUs can be essential experiences for the undergraduates that are interested in pursuing graduate education in the geosciences, and are frequently designed to provide the structure and mentoring experiences that have been shown to increase the retention and success of geoscience students. We applaud the efforts to make Hydrogeology Field Course accessible for those with physical mobility disabilities and hope that similar changes can be made to the Introductory and Advanced Field Courses so that people of all outdoor ability levels and confidence can experience these courses and gain the skills and knowledge taught. Further, we hope that the current curricula for these courses can grow to acknowledge the colonialist mindset that underpins the geosciences and explicitly include Native traditional ecological knowledge systems as part of the coursework, as described in the first section of this letter. These innovative learning experiences would place the Department at the forefront of experiential geoscience pedagogy and are essential for the development of a more diverse, inclusive, and equitable field of science. 9Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 4. Departmental Communication Widespread communication efforts are key to an inclusive and successful Departmental community. However, success in our department often depends on access to unwritten knowledge and undocumented resources. Many of these issues include lack of understanding about funding, fellowships, or details about events that are usually disseminated by word of mouth. This unwritten knowledge can act as a barrier for many, particularly undergraduates and new students, while inconveniencing and slowing knowledge transfer for those involved in these resources. We provide a list of areas where written communication could be improved in the Departmental Communications Appendix. We acknowledge the ongoing hard work to update the Graduate Student Handbook, but urge the completion of this update as soon as possible. The current system puts unnecessary work on graduate and undergraduate students to find this unwritten information and communicate needs, as well as on administrative staff who spend excessive time resolving confusion and fielding questions. We identify three specific communication gaps within our department: the prevalence of undocumented resources, a lack of formalized updates particularly with regard to departmental committees, and an inability to fully reach undergraduates. We propose that these issues may be addressed through implementation of departmental guides, formalized semesterly department update emails, and consistent communications geared specifically to undergraduates and new majors, as outlined below. We are open to further discussion about other ways to disseminate information more frequently and consistently. We acknowledge the ongoing work to centralize information through a departmental intranet and other efforts, and affirm that this is a great start. As a solution to many of the knowledge gaps created by lack of understanding of departmental procedures, we propose generating short Departmental Guides with standardized flowcharts and contact information for the wide range of issues that come up in day-to-day and month-to-month departmental business. These short Guides would be created by each relevant Departmental group or person (e.g., Accounting, Jen, Sharon, etc.) and would serve as a resource for the entire community by providing quick reference information for who to contact (or where to look) for answers to common questions. They would also serve as a centralized place for the departmental community to share important links and resources. Importantly, they would also reduce the workload and streamline tasks for the Office Staff, Department Head, and Committee Leaders. These guides could be available on the departmental website and updated as needed. A non-exhaustive list of suggestions for Guides to be created are listed in the Departmental Communications Appendix, but additional Guide ideas are welcome. While our department has been remote and unable to connect as we usually do in Tate, we have greatly appreciated Donna’s email updates. These emails not only helped us as a community remain informed in this highly variable time but also allowed for more unified and regular updates on the state of the department as a whole. We advocate for continuing these timely updates going forward. Additionally, we propose adding a more consistent email or internal newsletter (separate from the current alumni newsletter) at both the beginning 10Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 and end of each semester. At the beginning of each semester, this update could be sent concurrently with the department seminar schedule, and include notes about upcoming events and reminders on when regular departmental events occur, such as Happy Hour and Soft/Hard Rock Seminars. It should also be posted to the department website. We acknowledge that it has been difficult in the past to create an undergraduate listserv, and see this beginning-of-semester newsletter as a way to improve communication with current and potential undergraduate majors. We propose that this beginning-of-semester newsletter also be distributed to all introductory level ESCI classes to bring them into the community. By doing this, students who are potentially interested in joining the department or those who are not currently active in Geoclub could remain informed about ongoing departmental efforts and events. The end-of-semester newsletter would include some larger department updates from the past semester and for the coming semester. Importantly, it would contain specific updates from each of the departmental committees. We suggest that the committee updates highlight work that has been done during the semester, goals each committee has for the coming months, and any needs they may require from the larger department. We propose either asking the pre-existing Communications Committee or creating a new graduate student job to gather the committee updates. For this, a Google Form would be distributed to the department committees several weeks before the end of the semester and results would be compiled. These responses would then be included in the end-of-semester update, which would be sent out by Donna or Office Staff. This semester-end newsletter and update by committees would greatly improve overall communication of ongoing activities within the department. Finally, as a next step to this continued conversation, we propose an externally facilitated meeting between a representative group of approximately five students and five faculty this semester. The meeting this semester could be in lieu of the OGRES conversation between the Department Head, the DGS, and the graduate students if needed, and could also be held yearly to ensure communications remain open between groups. Combined, these regular updates and meetings would provide an avenue for more open communication between groups within our departmental community. 11Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 Conclusion The response of the geoscience community at large to the murder of George Floyd and the series of protests it inspired has been a burst of energy and interest in efforts towards increasing diversity and promoting equity within the community and outside of it. As time moves on, we must challenge ourselves to maintain that interest and make that push for equity a part of our daily practice. We have tried to highlight in this letter issues to focus on and steps to take that will make knowledge more accessible and teaching more inclusive. While these changes cannot be implemented immediately, we hope that we as a department can move quickly to begin to implement them. We look forward to working with you in their implementation and reflecting with you on how to evolve further. We look forward to addressing these requests as part of a facilitated discussion between faculty and graduate students during the upcoming semester. Signed: Harsh Anurag Hongfan Cao Jen Caseres Derek Cole Gabriela Ines DeLisle Diaz Maeve Dellert Rashida Doctor Stephanie Finch Allison Friello John He Lily Hershley Kathryn Hobart Noah Hoffman Sarah Horns Jabari Jones Camryn Jordan Izzy Keefe Lindsey Kenyon Jana Kramer Autumn Lauer Woonghee Lee Dalton Leprich Kali Mansur John McDaris Kirsten Meltesen Morgan Monz Leah Nelson Christine Newville Maddy Nyblade John Christopher O’Malley Dylan Parmenter Shanti Penprase Leila Saberi Mary Sabuda 12Jesse Schewe Emma Schneider Christopher Schuler Viven Sharma Priya Shenoi Lauren Shipman Francesca Socki Lexi Stricker James Symanski Alex Waheed Grace Walker Josie Welsh Rashel Williams-Schaetzel Evan Whiting Maximillian Van Wyk de Vries Zhao Zhu Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 APPENDICES Resources on Native EJ Struggles, Native Histories and The Intersections between Earth Sciences & Violence Geoscience and Colonialism GSA Talk (May 2020) Geology and Colonialism Reading List Overview of Tribal Sovereignty and History (Tad Johnson, Tribal liaison for UMN, Fall 2020) Intersectional Environmentalism and Environmental Justice - Collaborative Reading List Center for Earth, Energy, and Democracy EJ mapping tool UC Berkeley Environmental Justice reading list No Time For Silence anti-racism in geoscience letter MN AIPG racial justice reading list People of Color Environmental Leadership Summit Principles of EJ "MLK Now" is the Language of Struggle We Need (Yuichiro Onishi, UMN Associate Prof, Department Chair of African American and African Studies, Spring 2021) Blackhawk, N. (2007). Recasting the narrative of America: The rewards and challenges of teaching American Indian history. Journal of American History, 93(4), 1165–1170. https://doi.org/10.2307/25094606 Estes, Nick. Our History Is the Future: Standing Rock Versus the Dakota Access Pipeline, and the Long Tradition of Indigenous Resistance. Verso. 2019. Gilio-Whitaker, Dina. As Long as Grass Grows: The Indigenous Fight for Environmental Justice from Colonization to Standing Rock. Beacon Press. 2019. Lass, W. (1992). Minnesota’s Salt Lands Saga. Minnesota History Society. Lee, R., & Ahtone, T. (2020). Land-grab universities. High Country News, 1–38. Medin, Douglas and Bang, Megan. Who’s Asking? Native Science, Western Science, and Science Education. MIT Press. 2014. Smith, Linda Tuhiwai. Decolonizing Methodologies: Research and Indigenous Peoples. Zed Books Ltd. 1999. Waziyatawin. The paradox of Indigenous resurgence at the end of empire. Decolonization: Indigeneity, Education & Society. Vol. 1, No. 1, 2012. Waziyatawin. What Does Justice Look Like? The Struggle for Liberation on Dakota Homeland. Living Justice Press. 2008. Wilder, Craig. Ebony and Ivory: Race, Slavery, and the Troubled History of America’s Universities. Bloomsbury Press. 2013. Yusoff, K. (2018). A Billion Black Anthropocenes or None. University of Minnesota Press. American Indian Studies Classes Offered At The UMN TC AMIN 1001: Introduction to American Indian & Indigenous Peoples AMIN 1002: Indigenous Peoples in Global Perspective 13Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 AMIN 1003: American Indians in Minnesota*** AMIN 3312: American Indian Environmental Issues and Ecological Perspectives*** AMIN 3872: American Indian History: 1830 to the Present AMIN 3711: Dakota Culture and History*** AMIN 5409: American Indian Women: Ethnographic and Ethnohistorical Perspectives AMIN 8301: Critical Indigenous Theory 14Student Response Letter Jan. 2021 Departmental Communication Appendix Short Guides External to the Grad Handbook that could be created: 1. Funding Options and Opportunities a. Departmental Fellowships - Information for both grads and undergrads and where to look for this information. b. Paid Grad Positions i. Seminar Speaker Coordinator, CSE Graduate Coordinator, Prospective Graduate Visit Weekend Coordinator ii. Amount paid for each, how to inquire about each position, and job description. 2. List of Departmental Courses and How They are Offered (yearly/semesterly/by faculty availability?) and List of Relevant Departments to Consider for Additional Course Offerings 3. Department Committees and their Leaders. a. How to get involved 4. Accounting Frequently Asked Questions a. E.g., Reimbursements, P-Cards, etc. 5. Package Pickup and Shipping Guide 6. External Departments Relevant for Collaboration, Course Offerings, etc. 7. Field Camp Guide / Classes that require camping gear 8. Courses with Extra Fees 9. Student Fees Each Semester a. Including what will be covered by the department or college and when. 15
0 Acknowledgement of the recent events (re: Police violence and structural racism) and the
toll that this continues to take on students, particular/y Black students.

0 Declare police violence as a public health issue.

0 List what resources are available to support incoming students during this time.

Course Directors: Communicate to pre-clinical students by July 15th 2020 the specific steps
they will be taking to incorporate explicit anti-racism curriculum into F1 (beyond H&l and H&S).

F2/Clinical Students:

Clerkship Directors & Dean Hauer: provide a statement to current rotating students before July
15th 2020 to address the following:

0 Acknowledgement of the recent events (re: Police violence and structural racism) and the
toll that this continues to take on students, particular/y Black students.

0 Communicate the specific steps they are taking to address discriminatory and racialized
assessment practices.

0 Provide the following data: what percentage of clerkship and clinical site directors
have completed Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Champion Training? What is the

average number of hours of training each director has completed?

0 If we have paused our EMLR and LlC work, what does the make up for that look like?

0 List: steps that the SOM is taking to ensure that students will not be penalized for
their time away.

SOM Deans: Grant students with elective credit for work done to advance diversity, equity, and
inclusion initiatives within the School of Medicine. This includes (but is not limited to)

advocacy/activism efforts, curriculum development, and community engagement work.

0 All other electives require 8-10hours of work for1 unit.
0 Identify faculty leaders who can sign off on these efforts for elective credit.


To the faculty of the University of Wisconsin-Madison Geography Department: As the Abolition Geographies Collective, we are reaching out for your commitment to racial justice within our own department, the university, and beyond. We are appreciative of the current work that is already happening by faculty and students, but feel it falls short of our own expectations of our department and community that should and can take the necessary steps to lead and influence institutional transformations within the university and within the field of Geography. Furthermore, we acknowledge the precarity that faculty and staff may find themselves in as they work towards challenging the many systems of oppression that we are looking to abolish. However, as our teachers and comrades, we ask you to speak up and take advantage of the hierarchies and positions of power you do hold, by supporting and committing to our asks and expectations of the geography department and demands of the University of Wisconsin-Madison at-large. We appreciate your time and engagement. Sincerely, The Abolition Geographies Collective Danya Al-Saleh Kela Caldwell Christian Keeve Erin Clancy Lauren Gerlowski Sameera Ibrahim Luke Leavitt Becky Rose Kallista Bley Ruth Trumble Anika RiceUNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN - MADISON GEOGRAPHY GRADUATE STUDENT STATEMENT OF DEPARTMENTAL DEMANDS 1. Read through and endorse as a collected body and individuals the Abolition Geographies Collective Statement of Demands directed at the University Administration. (See below) 2. Actively engage with faculty in other departments around issues of racial justice within the academy. We are grateful to have some receptive, radical, and supportive faculty in our department who support our research and activist endeavours. Yet, we are painfully aware that our peers in other departments rarely receive the same amount of time, resources, or solidarity–particularly students of color. It is all of our responsibility to confront friends, family, and peers who engage in problematic behaviors and language, who abuse their power, and who turn away from the necessary work of chipping away at white supremacy. Thus, we believe it is also faculty members’ responsibility to confront their peers who fail in these ways as well. Using your position as faculty to make lateral calls-in and to advocate for this work within the university must happen. 3. Commit to hiring Black faculty across all geographic subfields. By this we do not mean granting a 0% appointment to tenured Black faculty in other departments, though we are not against this. However, cross appointments often create more labor for the faculty member, especially if they occupy multiple marginalized positions. Furthermore, the current absence of any Black geography faculty is inexcusable, and thus we seek a commitment to hiring tenure-track Black geographers whose home is in our own department. 4. Reconceive and expand recruitment strategies. We appreciate current efforts to increase recruitment of BIPOC students at the graduate level. We also believe this labor should not only fall onto a few staff and graduate students. Thus, we seek a stronger commitment within and beyond the Grad Studies Committee on this issue. One aspect of this would include widening the scope of where and who is recruited–i.e., beyond Geography conferences and other universities with whom we have close ties. Furthermore, we ask that the department as a whole consciously and actively work to decrease the gap between the number of white students and students of color without tokenizing them. This requires engagement with the body of geographical scholarship on structural racism in the discipline and how to materially address it (e.g., Sanders 1990, 2006; Pulido 2002, 2014; Mahtani 2004, 2006; Liu 2006; Kobayashi, Lawson and Sanders 2014; Solis et al 2014; Domosh 2015; Joshi, McCutcheon, and Sweet 2015, Hawthorne and Meche 2016; Desai 2017; Tolia-Kelly 2017; Hawthorne and Heitz 2018; Daigle 2019; Faria, Falola, Henderson, Torres 2019; Ybarra 2019; Johnson 2019). 5. Reevaluate syllabi across all subfields. Too often professors reduce Black, Indigenous, Queer, and Feminist geographies to a 1single week on the syllabus. However, it is necessary to make these literatures foundational in syllabi rather than tacked on as an afterthought. Too often are the insights from this work whitewashed and co-opted without proper credit. Therefore, we all must engage in a citational praxis that centers these epistemologies. This includes creative efforts to avoid siloing these literatures solely within human and PE geography, as physical geography, GIS and cartography as disciplines have historically had immense and negative impacts on Black, Indigenous, and Queer communities. This praxis not only happens in our writing but in how we teach and in the moments when we orient our students toward specific scholarship. Do not repeat the violent erasure and sidelining of these bodies of literature. 6. Dedicate Yi-Fu timeslots to department-wide forums on reparations and accountability in Fall 2020. We exist within a land-grab institution. We, as individuals and a department, owe reparations to those whose land we occupy. We will use this space to come together as a department and to discuss pathways to create sustained departmental reparations to the Ho-Chunk Nation. We ask and expect full participation in these forums from faculty, graduate students, and staff. Additionally, we ask for these forums to be ones of accountability. More specifically, we imagine these spaces as ways to follow through on the commitments to the other agenda items, to be accountable to taking concrete steps towards fulfilling these goals, and for department collaboration and feedback. 7. Redesign departmental TA training. This coming year, L&S TA training will be folded into a Graduate School-wide training and will include zero training on inclusive and equitable teaching or critical pedagogy. This is deeply alarming. We believe the geography TA training sessions can provide the time and space for this training. Yet, if current graduate students are still asked to run these sessions, we ask that they be paid for their time. However, we are also open to a different structure. Beyond being immediately useful in our classrooms, we view this training as a crucial form of professional development. 8. Finally, put in place mechanisms that ensure the labor of creating these changes doesn’t fall exclusively and disproportionately on junior faculty and those belonging to multiple marginalized groups. It is no surprise that diversity, emotional, and transformational work in and outside of the academy falls heaviest on the shoulders of those who occupy these positions. We refuse to be complicit in the reproduction of this labor gap that has multifaceted and wide-ranging consequences. Therefore, we ask for a system of accountability that creates an equal distribution of work. 2UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN - MADISON GEOGRAPHY GRADUATE STUDENT STATEMENT OF UNIVERSITY DEMANDS The state-sanctioned murder of George Floyd by the Minneapolis police, of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and Tony McDade, among innumerable and unnamed others whose lives were taken by white supremacist violence, have sparked an international, popular rebellion against racism and systemic police brutality. Angela Davis has said in reference to these uprisings: “What we are seeing now are demands. Demands to demilitarize the police; demands to defund the police; demands to dismantle the police and envision different modes of public safety. We’re asked now to consider how we might imagine justice in the future.” As graduate students and workers at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, a land-grab university, we feel it is urgent and necessary to speak to the complicity of the university in anti-Black racism and the colonial theft and expropriation of Indigenous land. We demand an end to this complicity. We demand that the university take concrete steps toward defunding and disarming the UW–Madison Police Department (UWPD), redistributing these funds to community development, education, health and housing, reinvesting in reparations to Black and Indigeneous students and communities, and more. We, the Abolition Geographies Collective, are a group of concerned graduate workers in the Geography Department of the University of Wisconsin - Madison. The contemporary call for UW-Madison to divest from the UWPD is part of an existing and long-term struggle grounded in the work and ongoing commitment by police and prison Abolitionists. Here we acknowledge the work and knowledge of countless scholar-activists, that help us ground our perspective and understanding of this moment of struggle, including and not limited to Angela Davis, Barbara Ransby, Ruth Wilson Gilmore, Robin D.G. Kelley, Kimberlé Crenshaw, and Mike Davis. We strongly encourage all to read their work and learn from their praxis. Furthermore, we strive to meet the immense challenges in line with the organizing that is already occurring around and beside us, by The Movement For Black Lives (M4BL), which has been on the ground building and working as a coalition with countless organizations such as: Black Lives Matter, Black Youth Project 100, Million Hoodies, Black Alliance for Just Immigration, Dream Defenders, the Organization for Black Struggle, and Southerners on New Ground (SONG) to demand policies for Black Power, Freedom, and Justice. We are emboldened, encouraged, and continue to learn from this reality of crisis and the movement, a movement for abolishing the use of prisons, policing, surveillance, and criminalization as solutions to crises of racial capitalism. Drawing from the work of 1 1 Loyd, “Abolitionist Perspectives on No Borders,” 92. 3these scholars and organizations, we reject the state as the “primary protector” of our communities. Within our immediate community of Wisconsin, we look to engage, support, and uplift the work that is already being done by Freedom Inc, Urban Triage Inc, Urban Underground of Milwaukee, The Milwaukee Freedom Fund, and Black Leaders Organizing for Communities (Milwaukee). While various administrators of the UW-Madison as well as the Chief of UWPD have released statements condemning the racist murder of George Floyd, their claims to effect institutional change remain inadequate. Expressions of grief or solidarity are effectively void without action taken towards police and prison abolition. As Dean Wilcots stated in his most recent statement to the UW-Madison community, “let us not fall into thinking that systemic racism and injustice are problems too large and too pervasive for us to solve. Let us not fall into thinking that finding solutions is someone else’s responsibility. This is not work that can or should be only borne by a few.” Accordingly, it is imperative UW-Madison address its own responsibility to work against the state and its sanctioned violences against people of color, of which the institution is presently guilty of upholding. Policing is rooted in anti-Black racism, slavery, lynchings, and “protecting and serving” a system of racial dominance and exploitation. In Madison, and in Wisconsin, we remember and honor Tony Robinson, Derek Williams, Dontre Hamilton, and Sylville Smith, all victims of police murder. These shootings are part of a long history as Madison and Wisconsin have grappled with white supremacy, as Nick Lally, Elsa Noterman, and Keith Woodward have written. North and South Madison, where most communities of color are located, have been subject to surveillance, neglect, and the worst effects of urban renewal. In the 1920s the Madison Police Department would give UW student members of the KKK the green light to terrorize the Greenbush neighborhood, where many of the city’s minoritized communities lived. In the midcentury this same area was completely redeveloped through eminent domain, leaving minority owned businesses and homes razed to the ground. North and South Madison continue to be heavily patrolled by police, while residents endure unchecked eviction and landlord neglect. Given in brief, this history, of which policing is a part, helps explain why Madison, despite its progressive pretensions, is home to some of the most stark racial disparities in the nation. The United States is one of the few places in the world where armed police forces are a normalized presence on college campuses. “Policing the campus” became increasingly common during the 1960s and 1970s as campus police presence expanded in scope and function in order to control student protests and movements. During this period, 4campus police became full-service professional law enforcement agencies. It was only during the 1980s and 1990s that campus police increasingly developed ties to municipal police departments and became autonomous from universities. The UWPD is currently the third largest police force in Dane County; UW-Madison spent $12.8 million on the police in 2018-2019, which is 5x more than the national average for University police; 2 recently the UWPD received $4.2 million to fund the expansion and remodeling of the UWPD station. Currently, policy allows for police officers to use Oleoresin Capsicum (OC) spray (commonly referred to as pepper spray) as a non-lethal Use of Force (see UWPD policy 1.3.4.1.B). Choke holds and neck restraints are currently allowed for sworn officers of UWPD if “the officer is justified in using deadly force and no other alternative is available, likely to be effective, or tactically optimal.” The UWPD has consistently touted its progressive reforms, training and alignment with Campaign Zero. Yet, it is clear that their reformist model is woefully insufficient. The elimination of the use of these “nonlethal” weapons and disarmament, while important for immediate harm reduction, is also not enough. In 2019, 39% of UWPD use of force was weaponless. The police often use their own bodies, vehicles, and the concrete as weapons as we have seen time and again with the murders of George Floyd, Eric Garner, Freddie Gray and others. Accordingly, the only real way to remove the threat of police violence and brutality is to get them off of our campus and out of our streets. At UW-Madison, there have been previous attempts by students to address racist and discriminatory policing by the UWPD and the militarization of the UWPD in line with the Black Lives Matter policy platform. In 2017, when the Associated Students of Madison (ASM) voted unanimously to approve a resolution for the UW Police Department to create a community accountability board to review policies that discriminate against people of color, the UWPD rejected these student-led efforts of reform. Instead, the UWPD issued a statement, which victimized itself by expressing disappointment with this resolution and emphasizing that the UWPD prides itself on its “open door policy” and “willingness to listen to feedback and make change.” Some of this transparency has included publicly listing the weapons that the UWPD uses and informing the student body if the UWPD uses university funds to purchase military equipment in the future. We stand steadfast when we say that transparency by the police to address systemic racism–whether in the form of body cameras, disclosures about its weapons arsenal or police dialogue with communities of color–does not work to end police brutality. We anticipate that the university will respond to these uprisings with a 22018-2019 Budget in Brief, p. 10 5series of proposed reforms; however, drawing from the insights of abolitionists, we know that reform only expands, normalizes, and further entrenches the police. We recognize that there was never a time in which the production of knowledge and the university were ever outside of processes of policing, incarceration, war-making, colonization and genocide in the name of ‘progress.’ To address the issue of police on our campus and explicit military ties is just one step in the process of abolition. It is also necessary for the university to accept its culpability in these interconnected processes. This means reparations to both Black and Indigenous communities and divestment from corporations that profit from carceral and colonial violence domestically and internationally. The university has circulated statements denouncing racist police violence and recognizing that “words are not enough;” if the administration wants these statements to move beyond shallow gestures, they must materially divest from carceral violence. In 2017, the ASM approved a divestment proposal calling for UW-Madison’s divestment from private prisons, fossil fuel corporations, border walls and arms manufacturers, yet the resolution was ultimately rejected and denounced by the campus administration. How can the university say “together...we can move toward a more just future,” when the administration has crushed student dissent by continuing to invest in private prisons and border walls? We need to imagine alternatives to the police on university campuses, and work towards different practices of public safety. We demand that the University of Wisconsin-Madison divest from the UWPD police and invest in public community modes of accountability and safety. To be clear, these calls for divestment coexist with a refusal to accept simply replacing the police with another armed security force. The university must change the system at its core and not simply exchange the current mode of policing the campus, one that currently depends on federal funding and student tuition dollars, with a privatized police force that directly profits from white supremacy and systemic police brutality. In the context of COVID-19 austerity measures and budget cuts, we demand that the university defund the campus police and commit to restorative and reparative practices. Police abolition is “a gradual process of strategically reallocating resources, funding, and responsibility away from police and toward community-based models of safety, support, and prevention.” Fulfillment of these demands as well those from black-led organizations, other departments’ graduate students, and social justice organizations across campus ensure the body of University of Wisconsin-Madison actively works to confront the root of harm and to end the punishment of harm itself. Our demands are as follows: 6DIVEST 1. We demand that UW-Madison abolish the UWPD. This involves the defunding and divestment from the UW Police Department and investment of these funds from policing toward racial and gender justice teaching, research, and community initiatives as well as increased material support for Black faculty, staff, students, and workers on campus. The plan for the redirection of both immediate and ongoing resources should be developed by faculty experts in the field of Black and Ethnic Studies on campus as well as student, staff, worker, and community stakeholders.  2. We demand an inquiry into and divestment from all educational programs and partnerships with ties to the police and military. Specifically, we demand that the UW end any collaboration with the Madison Police Department, the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) Future Law Enforcement Youth Academy, and the Department of Homeland Security. 3. We demand that the UW-Madison address and halt investments in companies that profit from the violation of human rights in the United States and internationally—including those with ties to the state of Israel, the Dakota Access Pipeline, and private prisons—as well as advocating for UW-Madison faculty and students whose work challenges these brutalizing and genodical systems. INVEST & REINVEST 1. We demand the financial support of Black students, faculty, and staff through direct funding, student organization funding, and funding for departments geared toward the support of Black communities. 2. We demand the university to recognize the singular importance of Black and Ethnic Studies, not only in its work towards racial justice, but also in reimagining the university itself. This includes the financial compensation of Black employees with tenure considerations for their unrecognized labor in mentoring, counseling, and engaging with students, in addition to their participation in multiple diversity efforts and committees. 3. We demand that non-Black staff, faculty, and administration take responsibility to proactively engage in anti-racist initiatives backed by self and institutionally led education to shift labor off of Black individuals. 74. We demand the creation of a policy that protects students that protest in the course of community-based activism on campus and disavows forms of intimidation including but not limited to, police brutality, threats of expulsion or suspension by the university. 5. We demand the formation of a committee to investigate avenues for reparations and demand that the university make sustained reparations to both Black and Indigenous communities, including but not limited to Freedom, Inc. and Urban Triage. 6. When university hires are being considered, one’s record with racial justice and injustices must be a major consideration. When Jim Johnson was put forward as the only candidate for the UW-System President, it was revealed that he had received multiple no confidence votes from faculty at different branch campuses and students in no small part because his graduation rates for black students were below 15%. While we recognize this position is filled by the Regents, we expect that any worker of the UW system (administrator, faculty, graduates, staff) should be subject to scrutiny of their history of racial justice and injustices. And when said expectation does not occur, we demand that allies stand in solidarity to not let racist leaders dictate our institution. 7. We demand a campus-wide centralized approach to addressing these systemic issues, identifying the decentralized campus as negligent and oppressive. This very structure in 2018, was identified by Chancellor Blank as a barrier to addressing sexual misconduct on campus: “We have a huge and very decentralized campus. As I’ve noted before, this university – students, staff and faculty – is about the size of Janesville. Because of this size, it is inevitable that some bad things will happen here, despite all of our efforts.” These efforts are inadequate. “Bad things,” such as anti-Black racism, racial violence, and gender based-violence are not inevitable. They are products of the current institutional structures of the university. By not changing these structures, the Chancellor and administration are complicit and responsible for these violences. The decentralized campus is dangerous and limits the opportunities for groups–administration, employees, faculty, staff, and students–across campus to build coalitions and operationalize real institutional change. We condemn the university’s complicity in a system that uses policing, surveillance, and imprisonment as solutions to economic and social problems. If the university does not 3 critically address its complicity within these systems and varying scales, we will continue to witness anti-Black racism, gendered-violence, and racialized violence across the university. We insist that action bucks rhetoric. Police are better funded and militarized 3 Burridge, “No Borders’ as a Critical Politics,” 466. 8by the year. Reverse the trend and put a halt to state-sanctioned and all violence. It is time to construct a campus and community that eschews aggression, fear, violence, and inaction for care, compassion, creativity and community healing. Signed, -Abolition Geographies Collective abolitiongeog@gmail.com 9
Dear RISD Printmaking Faculty and Staff, This letter serves as a summary, documentation, and expression of the concerns that the rising second year graduate students have discussed amongst ourselves and some suggested steps to make future terms more productive. Specifically, we are talking about departmental diversity, contemporaneity and pedagogy. These issues overlap in many ways, and represent a need for systemic change and continued commitment that goes beyond our tenure here. Diversity is not a solution unto itself in the pursuit of anti-racism in the arts. Every one of us has a responsibility to advocate for racial and gender equality in our department and in our lives. Additionally, there are steps we can take now to improve diversity and ultimately develop the department to become a stronger leader in its field. More transparency between the printmaking department faculty and printmaking graduate students about departmental hiring processes would be a step toward greater diversity. We ask that students be informed and involved with part-time and full-time position searches and hires. This could be similar to our involvement in visiting artist selections—we are currently committed to diversity in our selections as second year graduate students. We understand the barriers that the administration has placed onto our department regarding new hires: limited positions and devaluing of teaching units etc. However, in order for the administration to commit to diversity and equity, we, as a department, must advocate that they put their words into action by addressing barriers to beneficial systematic changes. We need to make a stronger effort to more effectively incorporate artists and educators who can enhance the department's diversity and contemporary relevance. That said, we do not believe there has been an active commitment to diversity, within this department, at this academic institution, and across academia. Since the 1970s, the printmaking department has made roughly four full-time hires that offer a diversity of backgrounds in terms of gender, sexual orientation, and indigenous ancestry. We are asking for future action to improve those statistics. We are not asking that you hire exclusively BIPOC (Black, Indigenous and People of Color), more that you cast the net wider than before and consider how the composition of the faculty and staff reflect a consistent, active commitment to diversity. To the issue of relevance in the department: we would like to see the same net cast to bring in contemporary printmaking artists and educators that go beyond the core techniques. We believe in supporting, experimenting and redefining the printmaking medium. In addition, in the interest of a broader understanding of printmaking as a practice, we have concerns about making the easy or available hire by reaching forprogram alumni. While this can be a wonderful opportunity when the fit is right, relying on alumni to fill positions exacerbates the departments lack of diversity. Additionally, of the department’s full-time faculty, 50% are at the age of retirement. As some have expressed plans to begin the retirement process soon, we suggest students and faculty begin working together to address equitable department hiring. We would like to see a pursuit of more current ideas in the hiring process: bringing in more artists from outside the field and exploring new kinds of course offerings. It seems there has been little change in the breadth and quality of teaching for many years. Our desire for a more diverse, more contemporary set of critics is also reflective of the quality of critique and engagement we have received from several current faculty members. We want the department to stay relevant not just technically versed. There are feedback channels we have used that should be taken into account when hiring; our course evaluations, comments, and the general trend toward seeking outside critics. These imbalances are not to be overlooked. This is an opportunity for the department to take action. We would like to caution that hiring diverse faculty cannot be the only action (as many BIPOC activists have pointed out). Inserting BIPOC into an already broken institution or department that is founded on and benefits from white supremacy leaves the systemic issues untouched while placing the burden on the new BIPOC faculty to fill all of the holes. The steps to address these shortcomings begin with asking questions: Are we assigning texts and sharing precedents from BIPOC? Do our BIPOC students feel heard at critique? Do our faculty members understand how to engage with BIPOC issues while understanding their positions of privilege? Do our professors favor students that look like them? The improvements and changes we ask for are in the interest of the printmaking department, both its faculty and students. We believe that a printmaking department that is more relevant to contemporary art practices and diverse art conversations will thrive. We ask for more support for experimental courses to be added—to the core curriculum, during wintersession, taught by printmaking second-year graduates, etc. We understand that changes to hiring and curriculum face barriers from administration and protocol. We know there are many requirements to fill and financial hurdles. However, we do not see these challenges as an excuse for no change and no action. Aware that the administration has expressed an interest to remove the Printmaking Department altogether—and in the process is squeezing funding for teaching units and therefore losing qualified candidates and curriculum offerings in the process—it is no surprise that student enrollment in the department is declining. Faculty and studentsshould all be eager and steadfast in working together to reestablish our role as a vital department within the Fine Arts at RISD and beyond. Sincerely, Class of 2021 MFA Printmaking Students Alexis Hill Breslin Bell Edward Steffanni Haley MacKeil Mariana Ramos Ortiz Riley Wilson ADDENDUM In light of the statement released on June 29th to the RISD Anti-Racism Coalition by Printmaking Department Head Cornelia McSheehy, there are additional, very concerning issues requiring further response. Our letter crafted for the entire department does not directly address this most recent statement, which amplifies and consolidates many of the concerning issues within the department. It is also full of inaccuracies, problematic anecdotes, personal information about students and staff, and concerning language that we do not condone or agree with. We further do not support a statement made by one voice on behalf of the entirety of the department; students, staff, and BIPOC community members. This department response to risdARC is a statement which creates excuses for insufficient department diversity, and fails to acknowledge the role of the department in systemic inequities. We as a graduate cohort are committed to following up with our department regarding these deeper systemic concerns. We plan to address, in more detail, this statement with our department faculty and staff directly.

My differences as a Black female educator was a hindrance at St. Olaf College, not a gift.

When I was strongly encouraged to get a teaching mentor at CILA right around the same time | pissed off a group
of students who promptly took their grievance to my department heads and then to the administration, I knew St.
Olaf would probably never tenure me. But the straw that broke, was when a white colleague said that they knew
what I was experiencing with white theater students was racism in the classroom. Yet, they did nothing to support

me.

Despite the trauma I’ve experienced at St. Olaf, I still feel so sad that I’m leaving. This was my dream job. I am a
person of faith, though. God blessed me with the opportunity to meet and work with good colleagues and talented

students, and I choose to leave with that impression.

But, white faculty, I implore you to support Black and Brown faculty by participating in and doing antiracist work
with each other. This work is hard and uncomfortable. The work will ask you to question everything you think you
know about yourself and your relationship to white and non-white people. But, it must be done. Or, I won't be the
last Black woman to leave the college. They will come (maybe), and more will leave. Once you learn how to be an
ally, then you can teach white students how to be allies as well. Maybe then there will be space to include all types
of teaching pedagogies from diverse bodies that aren’t dependent on understanding Ole culture to be effective.

Sincerely,

Michelle Cowin Gibbs, Ph.D. M.F.A.


June 30, 2020 Dear EEMB Faculty, Staff, and Administration, Thank you for issuing a statement in support of Black graduate students in EEMB. While we appreciate your statement of solidarity, we feel that mere words are not sufficient -- we wish to see actual institutional changes within EEMB and at UC Santa Barbara. As Black students in academia, the challenges that we have faced as a result of being underrepresented students in EEMB--and the environmental sciences, as a whole--require systemic change. To address the inequities that we regularly face as graduate students, we need you to demonstrate your commitment to anti-racism by implementing long-term, lasting solutions that will better serve Black graduate students and improve the quality of life for diverse students in EEMB. We recognize the EEMB Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee is drafting a more informative, detailed letter. However, we Black students in EEMB call specific attention to the following demands of the EEMB administration below: 1. Establish Strategic Plan for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) to be released to the EEMB community for further comment: EEMB administration needs to create a strategic, transparent roadmap for improving diversity, equity and inclusion outcomes within EEMB. This roadmap should then be released to the EEMB community for public comment, and community feedback should be used in revising and updating the DEI plan for the school. 2. Improve EEMB’s capacity for implementing DEI objectives: Currently, the burden of improving DEI outcomes within EEMB is largely the burden of graduate students. Specifically, the EEMB DEI Committee was established by three graduate students of color. However, there already exists an undue burden on diverse graduate students who must continually advocate for themselves and their fellow students without pay in addition to their teaching and research duties. To ensure that the EEMB’s DEI objectives are met, the EEMB administration should hire a staff member (of at least 0.5 FTE) to address diversity issues in the EEMB community. This DEI staff member should meet the following requirements: a. be trained/have experience with working in higher education and serving the needs of diverse students and faculty b. be well-versed in understanding UCSB’s process for reporting incidents of bias. Additionally, staff members should meet with, and report to, both the Associate Dean of DEI and graduate students serving on the EEMB’s DEI Committee. 3. Establish a pipeline for underrepresented student recruitment: To begin recruiting diverse students of color earlier in the education pipeline, EEMB administration shouldleverage existing partnerships with other UCSB departments, institutions and non-profit organizations that specialize in outreach to students of color. The letter from the DEI committee lists many examples, but we have included a few more: a. Expand recruitment of graduate students to include Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSI), Tribal Colleges and Universities, other UCs, and the California State University system. b. Expand recruitment of diverse students from existing diversity recruitment programs associated with the aforementioned institutions, which include: i. California Forum for Diversity in Graduate Education (https://www.caldiversityforum.org/) ii. UC-HSI Doctoral Diversity initiative (https://www.ucop.edu/graduate-studies/initiatives-outreach/uc-hsi-ddi.ht ml) 4. Address barriers to admission for Black and other underrepresented applicants: EEMB administration should make sure that EEMB’s admission requirements and student selection processes are transparent and centered on holistic review through: a. Taking concrete measures to reduce unconscious bias in the admission process. b. Removing requirements that discourage diverse applicants from applying to EEMB: i. Removing GRE requirements from graduate school applications, which are poor predictors of graduate students’ success. ii. Eliminating EEMB application fees, which may be prohibitively high for students applying to multiple programs. 5. Diversification of EEMB’s annual trainings: EEMB relies on using annual online trainings to ensure a safer learning environment for students, such as cyber security and sexual harassment. However, these trainings do not address racism, homophobia, transphobia, religious discrimination, and other forms of bias. The EEMB administration should ensure that annual trainings include the following items: a. Bystander intervention training. It is imperative that students, staff, and faculty are trained to not only recognize incidents of bias but also in strategies to interfere in these incidents as they occur. Existing campus resources skilled in offering bystander intervention training could include UCSB’s Office of DEI, Office of Black Student Development, Assistant Director of Mental Health Initiatives and Inclusion, etc. b. Official documentation for EEMB’s Pillars of Respect. Additionally, the EEMB administration must create official documentation for “Pillars of Respect” for the EEMB department, outlining acceptable behavior based on EEMB’s Strategic Plan for improving DEI and any existing codes of conduct at UCSB. This should also be added to the EEMB Graduate Student Handbook for easy reference by students and faculty.6. Faculty, staff, and graduate students should receive annual training on anti-racism and LGBTQIA+ issues: Faculty, staff, and graduate students have a role in ensuring that EEMB is an inclusive environment for all students, and should embrace the intersectional nature of Black student identities and needs. To achieve this, EEMB administration should provide annual, mandatory training that equips faculty, staff, and graduate students with the capability to address institutional racism. a. Such trainings should ensure that all faculty, staff, and graduate students are educated about special issues for students, including, but not limited to, students identifying with the following identities: i. LGBTQIA+ students ii. Students with physical disabilities, learning disabilities, and/or non-neurotypical students iii. Non-traditional students iv. Graduate student parents v. Students for whom English is not a first/native language 7. Establish clear protocols for timely responses to acts of aggression, violence, and bias against students who identify with marginalized groups: EEMB administration should create a clear protocol for responding to incidents of bias against students, faculty, or staff members that belong to a marginalized group. An effective response could include: a. Supportive statements. Issuing a supportive statement addressing the incident to both the general community and to those belonging to the underrepresented group targeted by the incident of bias. b. Actions to prevent/minimize future incidents of bias. Including a list of actions that EEMB administration will take to minimize/prevent future incidents of bias, and alleviate distress caused by the incident. c. Encourage students to speak up and connect them with campus resources. Inform EEMB about how marginalized students, faculty and staff can ask for help and locate resources in EEMB and UCSB that will allow them to care for themselves and their community. 8. Increase recruitment of Black faculty, via: a. Wide distribution of job search announcements. EEMB administration should ensure that job search announcements are distributed widely, especially to institutions that train diverse postdocs and PhD students. Job searches/distribution of announcements should not be limited to the EEMB community, as it currently lacks racial and ethnic diversity. b. Consult with external departments. EEMB administration should consult with departments who have been successful in hiring and retaining Black and diverse faculty (e.g. Environmental Studies).9. Support for alumni and recent graduates of color: The fields of Ecology, Evolutionary, and Marine Biology can be difficult for people of color to work in after graduation, as the workplace often lacks ethnic and racial diversity. As the only person of color in the workplace, diverse graduates can expect to be the sole "representative" of their respective culture in the workplace. In addition, diverse environmental professionals are often tasked with self-advocacy and fighting for inclusivity in the workplace in addition to our regular duties. These additional mental and emotional burdens are a systemic problem in both academia and within the workplace, and these struggles surely cause many students from marginalized identities to leave academia and/or exit the environmental (and STEM) fields. To ease the transition of EEMB students into the workforce, EEMB administration should create a strong EEMB alumni of color network by establishing a formal mentorship program for students of color who are looking for support and advice in the workplace and academia. 10. Improve diverse recruitment and support for underrepresented postdoctoral scholars in EEMB: As an institution committed to training the next generation of environmental leaders and researchers, EEMB has a duty to recruit, train, and retain racial and ethnic minority postdoctoral scientists at a pivotal point in their careers. These scientists create a diverse recruitment pool for tenure-track faculty and lecturers for the department and greater environmental sciences field. As a school committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment, we implore you to heed to the actionable demands we thoughtfully outlined. Sincerely, Jasmine Childress, Imani Russell, Terence Leach, Adriane McDonald, and Nicola Paul (Black Graduate Students of EEMB)
Subject Line: A call for efforts on BIPOC representation in the College of ScienceTo Dean Mary Galvin, Associate Provost Laura Carlson, and Provost Marie Lynn Miranda:During this time of civil unrest around the nation, institutions of higher learning have a duty to confront the ways in which racism structures our own community. While we thank the University for statements against the overt violence against Black people and other persecuted groups, we implore our leadership to take action. We, the undersigned graduate students and postdoctoral researchers from the College of Science, are writing to address past and current efforts towards the hiring, retention, and promotion of Black, Indigenous, and other People of Color (BIPOC) faculty. We are unsatisfied with the current representation of BIPOC scientists in our departments. Faculty representation is a direct signal of the attributes and traits of scientists valued by the University and, without it, both current and prospective trainees hear a message misaligned with an appreciation of diversity and inclusion. Thus, efforts to increase the representation of BIPOC faculty would have several beneficial effects on trainees and the broader student community. Diverse groups are more innovative and better at solving complex problems, thus, interacting with and being a part of diverse research units has direct benefits for the productivity and scientific development of trainees and students (). Further, as many students and postdoctoral researchers identify as BIPOC, our development as scientists improves when the group of faculty responsible for our training represents diverse backgrounds and is able to provide guidance regarding the challenges that BIPOC scholars face in academia (). Lastly, given that BIPOC faculty are disproportionately underrepresented across institutions, a University that actively fights against this  could have positive, downstream effects on trainees pursuing academic careers. Across all departments, the College of Science is composed of few BIPOC faculty with no departments meeting the representation of the general public population. We note that statements of valuation of diverse faculty are incongruent with the reality of our departments, and that quantifiable action must be made in order to foster a College that truly champions diversity and retains BIPOC faculty. For example, faced with a decline in Catholic representation across departments, the University implemented the , a program with defined goals and resources, to identify and recruit promising Catholic faculty members. The Mission Hiring Initiative demonstrates the ability of the University to take action when it sees value in doing so, and further highlights a lack of effective action on the part of representation for BIPOC and other minoritized groups. In moving forward, we ask for a reassessment of the agnostic approach to race and identity when evaluating hiring, tenure, and promotion decisions. Previous research has highlighted that “typical measures of scientific achievement—NIH training, previous grants, publications, and citations—do not translate to the same level of application success across race and ethnic groups” (, , ). Teaching evaluations are also shown to be systematically biased against women and faculty of color, an effect that is especially compounded against women faculty of color (). Lastly, BIPOC faculty are also more likely to engage in mentorship, departmental service, and community engagement activities focused on student development that are negatively weighted as “distractions” in terms of faculty productivity (). Given this bias in grant funding and other traditional metrics of scientific success, systems which ignore race and identity implicitly favor the majority.Finally, we acknowledge that the lack of representation of BIPOC faculty is a systemic problem, one that can only be addressed through evaluation of . Thus, we are calling for a formal meeting with the Dean, Provosts, and graduate student and faculty representatives from all departments to discuss the implementation of the following efforts to address representation of BIPOC faculty, to be held as soon as possible or at least by the end of September: Development and implementation of additional funding initiatives and targeted hiring policies to increase representation of BIPOC facultyDevelopment and implementation of new policies for providing feedback and transparency in tenure and promotion decisionsA formal external evaluation of the tenure and promotion processes with a specific focus on the valuation of departmental service, mentoring, and teaching roles, and with a consideration of the ways membership in a minoritized group, especially for Black and Indigenous faculty, impacts service, mentoring, and teaching rolesFollowing the outcome of this meeting, we ask for a published action plan with stated quantifiable goals, policies, resources and a timeline for implementation that incorporates the next hiring cycles. We look forward to hearing from you and continuing this discussion. Respectfully,Graduate Students Against Racial Injustice at Notre Dame (GS-ARIND)Brittni Bertolet, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameMauna Dasari, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAlexis Korotasz, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameMegan Vahsen, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameMorgan Widhalm, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameChissa Rivaldi, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameChloe Ramsay, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameColin Dassow, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameCamille Mosley, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameChelsea Weibel, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameTaylor Tobin, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameTim Burton, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameTyson Lager, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameEmily Nonnamaker, Graduate Student, Department of of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameMarya Poterek, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameThomas Moran, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameColeman Thomas, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameShannon Dulz, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameCarly Olson, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameJordan Cockfield, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameJohn Huber, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAmanda Yamasaki, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameJessica Wahlers, Graduate Student, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameHannah Corman, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameRachel Oidtman, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameKatelyn Carothers, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre Dame	Jessica Ross, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameMonica C. Perez, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameMatt Trentman, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DamePatrick Boyd, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameJames Schofield, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameRebecca Anderson, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre Dame	Samantha Atkins, Alumni, Department of Bioengineering, University of Notre DameCeara Talbot, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameShireen Jayman, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameKatie O'Reilly, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameCristal Reyna Thompson, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameDinuka Cooray, Alumni, A&L Pre-Health and Gender Studies, University of Notre DameElizabeth Miller, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameArial Shogren, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameKeith O’Connor, Graduate Student, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences, University of Notre DameElizabeth Arsenault, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAmanda Nowak, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameKevin Lee, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameKaren Angeles, Graduate Student, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences, University of Notre DamePaul Helquist, Faculty, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameCharlotte Wood, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameKatie Hinde, Faculty, School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State UniversityBrian Tanis, Integrative Biology, Oregon State UniversityJessica E Light, Faculty, Ecology and Conservation Biology, Texas A&M UniversityAurel Holzschuh, Graduate Student, Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAlan Costello, Graduate Student, Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameKatherine Ginsbach, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences and Notre Dame Law School, University of Notre DameJacob Zwart, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DamePeter Garnavich, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameKaylee Cloghessy, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameSusan Lad, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameCarmella Vizza, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameCarly Barbera, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameGuido Camargo España, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameSophia Kics, Undergraduate Student, University of Notre DameSharif Rahmy, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAnonymous, Alumni, Sacred Music, University of Notre DameAsia Murphy, Graduate Student, Penn StateMithara Kal, Undergraduate Student, Neuroscience and Behavior, University of Notre DameAmaya Medeiros, Undergraduate Student, Department of Psychology	University of Notre DameDani Green, Graduate Student, Department of English, University of Notre DameDavid Jansen, Staff, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameLogan Quigley, Graduate Student, Department of English, University of Notre DameAmaryllis Adey, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAmaya Medeiros, Undergraduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameAudrey Taylor, Graduate Student, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences, University of Notre DameSean Cavany, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameJinmi Yoon, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameJens Jakob Kjaer, Alumni, Department of Mathematics, University of Notre DameDiana La Torre, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAndrea Kibel, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameKatherine Bermingham, Graduate Student, Department of Political Science, University of Notre DameKayla Hurd, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameMarc Kissel, Faculty, Department of Anthropology, Appalachian State UniversityCecelia Chisdock, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameKatrina Button-Simons, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameCesar Soto, Faculty, Humanities, Grace College & Theological SeminaryAnne Hilborn, Postdoctoral Researcher, Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, University of California, RiversideMary Casillas, Teacher, Secondary Science, Plano ISDMegumi Inoue, Alumni, Preprofessional Studies, University of Notre DamePatrice K. Connors, Faculty, Department of Biological Sciences, Colorado Mesa UniversityAlyson Brokaw, Graduate Student, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Texas A&M UniversityTiffany Huwe, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameSharon Pernicano, Interested person, No specific 	Iris Outlaw, Alumni, Student Affairs/MCOB. University of Notre DameKendra Washington-Bass, Alumni, University of Notre DameGurdip Uppal, Graduate Student, Department of Physics,	University of Notre DameLauren Trichtinger, Graduate Student, Psychology, University of Notre DameNirupama Sensharma, Graduate Student, Physics, University of Notre DameGraham Peaslee, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameRicardo Romero, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameIan McAlister, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameLisa Hom, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameSam Potier, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameDaniel Bruzzese, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameBryant Vande Kolk, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameAlyssa Willson, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameUmesh Garg, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameAmaya Medeiros, Undergraduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameJustin Crepp, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameCarly Barbera, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameRachael Bucci, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameAbigail Mechtenberg, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameMorten Eskildsen, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameLisa Hom, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameLauren Green, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAmanda Daniela Cortez, Postdoctoral Researcher, Anthropology, University of ConnecticutShari Herman, Staff, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameAdam Martin, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameStan Letchev, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameElise Snyder, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DamePhilippe Collon, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameAntonio Delgado, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameSamantha Rumschlag, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameSeul-Ki Bac, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameCarissa DiPietro , Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameHolly Levin-Aspenson,Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameRebecca Fritz, Alumni,University of Notre DameClaire Scott-Bacon, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameWen Qu, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameKe-Hai Yuan, Faculty, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameDahyeon Kim, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameJen Hames, Faculty, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameRuth Speidel, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameDianna Tran, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameAriel Agueri, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameGavin Hsu, Alumni, Department of Preprofessional Studies, University of Notre DameAnanya Goon Tuli, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameBryce Frentz, Graduate Student, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameLiam Maher, Alumni, A/AH/D, University of Notre DameKatheryn Kelley, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameErin Celeste, Alumni, College of Arts and Letters, University of Notre DameKatherine Surine, Alumni, Music and Anthropology, University of Notre DameBeverly Kyalwazi, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences , University of Notre DameQuan Minh Tran, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Science, University of Notre DameJessica Carney, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameKatherine Edler, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameKathryn M. Lance, Alumni, Psychology & Peace Studies, University of Notre DameAnita Lerch, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameManoel Couder, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameManuel Vejar, Graduate Student, Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering & Earth Sciences, University of Notre DameMichelle Wang, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameR. Rebecca Love, Alumni, University of Notre DameNiraja Suresh, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameShereen Khoo, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameAnne Mattingly, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameDenise M Peralta, Family member of Graduate Student at University of Notre DameDaniel Erickson, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameArmando Magallanes Marrufo, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameJessika Valenciano, Graduate Student, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences, University of Notre DameDavid Meretzky, Graduate Student, Department of Mathematics, University of Notre DameElizabeth Archie, Faculty, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameNatalie Levesque, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameMichelle Whaley, Faculty, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameEthan Reed, Graduate Student, Department of Mathematics, University of Notre DameMaisha Khair Nima, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameElodie Tong-Lin, N/A, UC Berkeley, AlumniPersephone DShaun, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameAlex Perkins, Faculty, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameMichael J. Cramer, Faculty, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameWendy Alvarez, Alumni, Department of	Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameTatiana Rosales, Graduate Student, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameMatthew Aubourg, Undergraduate Student, Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Notre DameBradley Keegan, Graduate Student, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameHeather Forrest Fruscalzo, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameFernando Alamos, Graduate Student, AME, University of Notre DameLainey Bristow, Alumni, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameSeth M Parker, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameBenjamin Gombash, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameBrenna Gomer, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameLindsay Serenr, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameMorgan Smith, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameM. Sharon Stack, Faculty, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameBethany Wentz, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameJoyce Rivera Gonzalez, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameKatharine A. White, Faculty, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameJohn Ochieng, Staff, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry , University of Notre DameJulia Spear, Graduate Student, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameRaquel Montanez-Gonzalez, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameStuart Jones, Faculty, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameC. Bruce Mousseau, Graduate Student, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameMichael Siroky, Undergraduate Student, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameRebecca Surman, Faculty, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameBrandon Czowski, Graduate Student, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre DameSana Saiyed, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameSymone Johnson, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameKelsey M. Reese, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameHanna Erftenbeck, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DamePhoenix Pedro, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameLauren Finnigan, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameMolly O’Neill, Graduate Student, Department of Psychology, University of Notre DameNicholas Anes, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameAyse Bursali, Graduate Student, Department of Anthropology, University of Notre DameAlex Dombos, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Physics, University of Notre DameDavid Flagel, Faculty, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameHeather Buelow, Staff, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameEthan Brown, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameDevin Jones, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAllison Hendershot, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameAna Flores-Mireles, Faculty, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameLaura Ortiz-Mercado, Graduate Student, Department of English, University of Notre DameShannon Speir-Alderman, Graduate Student, Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre DameRaquael Joiner, Postdoctoral Researcher, Department of Psychology, University of Notre Dame
POINT 6: CAREERS

The department must create more opportunities for students throughout the majors to see,
learn from, participate in professional photographic practice, whether fine art, fashion,
commercial or otherwise. This should include a larger number of studio visits, or
extra—curricular trips, conversations with artists, photo editors, curators, agency reps or other
figures in professional life.

The photography department must make a stronger connection with the RISD Careers

 

Center to create more opportunities geared directly towards students majoring in
Photography. The lack of professional development in the program leaves our students
disconnected from the industry as they graduate. The RISD Careers Center offers few resources
or solutions or opportunities for our students, and our alumni cannot bear the full responsibility
of creating professional experiences for our students on their own. The 21st—century
photographer is in need of many more tools under their belt, including the following:

Social Media training

Online portfolio/web design

Basics for running a business/studio
Etiquette for professional correspondence

1.
2.
3.
4
5. Grant writing and application training
6 Industry—standard editing techniques

7 Budgeting

8 Aesthetic development & personal branding
9

Understanding Image compilation & animation


community gardens throughout UC Riverside’s agricultural operations fields; and
community land trusts and free tuition for Black and historically displaced peoples. We
affirm that Black student leadership, participation, and input are critical to this effort.

We strongly support dismantling antiblack practices and policies that endanger our
students and our community, and the construction of new forms of campus safety that
truly provide a safe place to learn and be for ALL students, staff, faculty, and others. We
take our lead from the BSU in calling for exploration of alternative forms of safety,
beyond policing. We also join the UC Academic Council’s calls to dismantle our
collective reliance on policing and other criminalizing practices. We strongly support the
BSU suggestions for constructive next steps, including Black student representation at
all levels of the university, expansion of student relations, and immediate and ongoing
conversations with Chancellor Wilcox, administration, UCPD, and allies that are
followed by concrete steps to move toward substantive change in which UCR is held
accountable. And we are prepared to support student demands beyond the negotiating
table, if the administration is not sufficiently responsive.

We recognize the call from the BSU that policing, as an inherently antiblack institution
that discriminates against Black students, faculty, staff and workers, has no place on our
campus in its current form. We also recognize that such antiblack practices not only
threaten the safety and well-being of those on our campus, but that they are a corrosive
force that also seeps into our spaces of learning and collective being.

Sincerely,

The Department of Anthropology


Abolition Geographies Collective - Statement of University Demands 8/21/20, 8:03 PM

Ian Baran - Graduate Worker | Urban & Environmental Planning &
Policyl University of California, Irvine

Elin Westerling - Graduate Worker | Sciences PO Paris

Jessica DiCarlo - Graduate Worker & Doctoral Candidate | Geography |
University of Colorado, Boulder

Javier Arbona - Assistant Professor | American Studies | University of
California, Davis

Jeﬁ‘ Martin - Post-doc | University of California, Berkeley

Chris Lesser - Graduate Worker & PhD Candidate | Geography |
University of California, Berkeley

[1] Loyd, “Abolitionist Perspectives on No Borders,” 92.
[Z]2018—2019 Budget in Brief, p. 10
Q] Burridge, “No Borders’ as a Critical Politics,” 466.

Published by mgle Drive — ﬁport Abuse

 

https://docs.google.com/document/u/‘I/d/e/ZPACX-ivRva9’INycl_-...|wAROT|kAPU6Cq6RthdeIBKX_N_YHtl9iD7aCmtoZ_ufmskaM7hswlHTWNY Page 15 of 15


As faculty, we need to be more proactive about sharing information and resources with you, and
also need to take steps such as incorporating more information about scientiﬁc racism into all of
our courses. And the entire department—students and faculty alike—must do the work to
educate ourselves and think deeply about our biases and cultural encumbrances. So as a start,
here is a list of articles and resources speciﬁc to Geosciences, which we hope will help you
understand the structural problems in the discipline. We all live with these historical realities.
We must all work to change them.

The Geosciences Community Needs to Be More Diverse and Inclusive: Bell and White,
Scientiﬁc American, 2020

Deep Biases Prevent Diverse Talent from Advancing: Howley, EOS, 2020
No progress on Diversity in 40 years: Bernard and Cooperdock, 2018, Nature Geosciences

Race and Racism in the Geosciences: Dutt, 2019, Nature Geosciences
Earth Science has a Whiteness Problem: Goldberg 2019, New York Times.

Women from some under-represented minorities are given too few talks at world’s largest
Earth-science conference: Ford et a1. 2019, Nature.

Scientists push against barriers to diversity in the ﬁeld sciences: Pickrell 2020, Science.
A Primer on Diversity (with specific Geosciences examples and resources)

This work is not easy. We, your professors and mentors, are prepared to feel uncomfortable and
know that we will make mistakes, but we are committed to doing this work long—term. We are
here for all of you.

With warm regards,

Phoebe Cohen
Alex Apotsos
Alice Bradley

J osé Constantine
Mea Cook
Ronadh Cox

Paul Karabinos
Bud Wobus



by the year. Reverse the trend and put a halt to state—sanctioned and all violence. It is
time to construct a campus and community that eschews aggression, fear, violence, and
inaction for care, compassion, creativity and community healing.

Signed,

—Abolition Geographies Collective
abolitiongeog@gmail.com


A Google document has been put together by one of the graduate students in the department to
provide resources that can be utilized to educate ourselves on how to be better allies that can

be shared with anyone interested to learn.

We know that the change will take an adjustment and some time, but there is a need for
change. We hope that you will stand up with us and be advocates for eliminating the systemic
racism present within our fields and in our department. As a first step, we would like to invite
everyone (faculty, students, and staff) to an open forum WebEx meeting (to be scheduled in a
follow—up email) centered around a discussion of systemic racism and steps forward for change.

We hope you will join us.
Sincerely,

Amanda Rudolph and Adeene Denton
Co—Signed by:

[31 graduate students whose names I removed for sharing purposes]


10/ 14/2020 Black Student Union Letter to UCSB Faculty and Staff Regarding Anti—Black Genocide I Department of Black Studies — UC Santa Barbara

courses late in the quarter is not an easy task, and that it may be difficult to achieve depending on deadlines, availability and capacity of
TAs, etc... We would also like to acknowledge the efforts that some faculty and TAs have exhausted in order to accommodate the impossible
situation that the Black community is currently experiencing. We see your solidarity and appreciate it greatly. We ask that departments
across campus extend this same empathy. This can be done by professors making finals optional. With this, we hope for the Black students
that choose to take their finals to be given extensions on them. As for the Black

students that opt out of their finals, we hope that professors will adjust the grading scale to properly reflect the work they have done up
until this point. Black students at UCSB are collectively grieving and this would assist many of us who must now prioritize our mental,
physical, spiritual health and safety and don’t have the capacity to complete the term. We are well aware that this request may be
misconstrued as an opportunity to take advantage of the circumstance, and we expect that your commitment to Black lives would instead
consider how it is impossible for Black people to do so while systemic oppression persists. To be clear, we are requesting a safeguard for
Black students who are at a mental, physical and spiritual standstill and would like their existing academic commitments to be maintained
and honored.

Following this initial request, we feel it is important that Black students’ experiences will not be co-opted by everyone to universalize the
student’s needs academically. We are being doubly devalued in the name of “equal opportunity”— where our lives don’t matter and our
experience is diminished by conflating it to a singular s truggle for all students. Should we use this idea as the model for academic action,
the institution would fail to center the Black community who are the very subjects of this anti-Black genocide. We are literally begging for
our livelihoods, please consider this as nothing less.

Sincerely,
The Black Student Union 2019—2020

June 11, 2020 - 4:38am

 

Department of Black Studies

Room 3631, South Hall

University of California, Santa Barbara
Santa Barbara, CA 93106—3150

Tel: (805) 893-8045

Fax: (805) 893-3597

Main Office Hours
Monday through Friday
8am—12pm and 1-5pm

Faculty & Staff Directory_

 

Campus Map§(mp: [ [www.aw.id.ucsb.edu [ map_sL)_

Visit us on Facebook

0 Center for Black Studies Research(mp:[[www.research.ucsb.edu[cbs[)_
o College of Letters and Science(mp:[[www.college.ucsb.edu)_

0 UC Santa Barbara(ﬂp:[[www.ucsb.edu)_

0 Accessibility_

0 Appr_opriate Use(mp:[[www.policy.ucsb.edu[terms of use[)_
0 Webmaster

o Privacy_(mp:[ [www.policy.ucsb.edu [ privacy-notification [ )_

 

 

° ©2020

- The Regents of the University of California.
. All Rights Reserved.

- UC Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA 93106

https://www.blackstudies .ucsb.edu/news/announcement/468 3/3


Student Response Letter Jan. 2021

Departmental Communication Appendix

Short Guides External to the Grad Handbook that could be created:
1. Funding Options and Opportunities
a. Departmental Fellowships — Information for both grads and undergrads and
where to look for this information.
b. Paid Grad Positions
i. Seminar Speaker Coordinator, CSE Graduate Coordinator, Prospective
Graduate Visit Weekend Coordinator
ii. Amount paid for each, how to inquire about each position, and job
descnpﬂon.

2. List of Departmental Courses and How They are Offered (yearly/semesterly/by faculty
availability?) and List of Relevant Departments to Consider for Additional Course
Offerings

3. Department Committees and their Leaders.

a. How to get involved

4. Accounting Frequently Asked Questions

a. E.g., Reimbursements, P—Cards, etc.
Package Pickup and Shipping Guide
External Departments Relevant for Collaboration, Course Offerings, etc.
Field Camp Guide / Classes that require camping gear
Courses with Extra Fees
Student Fees Each Semester

a. Including what will be covered by the department or college and when.

$090.”???

15


1/31/2021

Letter to the Department of Oceanography

Letter to the Department of Oceanography

or condltlons. in an equal custrloutlon, eacn
person might receive one piece of bread
regardless of their needs; in an
equitable distribution, one would take into
account whether the person has eaten yet that
day, how much food they would need to
survive, and allocate an appropriate amount of
bread that accounts for these initial imbalances.
For example, equity is important when thinking
about education and mentorship, as each
student comes into the program with a different
background and different needs.

Inclusion: The “active, intentional, and ongoing

engagement with diversity,” which allows for
the creation of a space where all individuals
from all groups feel comfortable, safe,
respected, and heard.

Appendix 111. 2018—2019 racial and
ethnic diversity among employees in

SOEST

| I Hawaii I US I SOEST

60

SO

40

30

Percent

20

10

O

‘.".'hitu;~ alone. Asran alone Hispanio’Latino Two or More Black or Nric an

not Hispanic or Races Am t-n'can,

Lat no alone.

Explanatory note: SOEST racial/ethnic diversity data provided
by MIRO (Manoa Institutional Research Office). UH System—
wide data is available at IRO. The data used for this graph can be
accessed lire. If you have questions about this graph contact:

agajigan@hawaii.edu. This is employees data so it includes
faculty, staff and graduate students with GA/TA/RAship. We
have yet to identify a source for undergraduate diversity. We
acknowledge that aggregating Asian as well as other “races” in
one group is inherently problematic. For instance, Asians are not
monolithic but have unequal degrees of oppression.

https://docs . goo gle .com/document/u/ 1/d/e/ 2PACX— 1 VRSnX20FimU g4ZF aK94ParMODBEVQlRpﬁlMu9r—H8Tq409quoykz8B 8X—Q_FYRSNbeUmKTQg0HF_/pub

Published by @gle Drive — Eport Abuse

Updated automatically every 5 minutes

Native
Hawa an, Oine'

Pal: iﬁ c lsla not-r, Alaskan Natl we.

3 (VIC

An‘encan
Indian and

a 0'10

7/7


June 2, 2020 Chancellor Gene D. Block UCLA Executive Vice-Chancellor & Provost Emily Carter UCLA Dear Chancellor Block and Executive Vice-Chancellor Carter, It has come to our attention that last evening, June 1, 2020, a UCLA facility, the Jackie Robinson  Stadium, was used by LAPD to detain protesters and process arrests, including arrests of UCLA students.  We have heard from the National Lawyers Guild-Los Angeles volunteers, arrested UCLA students, and  other arrested protesters on this matter. Testimony from arrested protesters is chilling. Arrested for violation of curfew in downtown Los  Angeles, protesters were crowded into LA County Sheriff’s Department buses and brought to UCLA. As  they arrived, they looked out of the small windows on these prison buses only to see Bruins logos and  signs greeting them at the Jackie Robinson Stadium. Protesters were held on these buses at UCLA for five to six hours, without access to restrooms, food, water, information, or medical attention. Indeed, there  was a medical emergency on one of the buses, one that received a response from the fire department  several hours later. All protocols of social distancing were violated by the LA County Sheriff’s Department  and LAPD with protesters deliberately crowded into buses and officers not following rules and  recommendations established by the City, the County, and the CDC, including wearing masks. The cruel  irony that this took place at a location used as a COVID-19 testing site is not lost on those arrested or on  us. When protesters were taken off the buses, they were subject to processing in the parking lot of the  stadium and then released, which meant that they were directed to find their way home late at night  (between 1:30 am and 3:30 am) from the Jackie Robinson Stadium. Without working cell phones and  under conditions of curfew, this was a near impossible task, especially for those unhoused Angelenos who  had also been arrested for curfew violation for simply being on the streets of downtown Los Angeles and  were now marooned at UCLA. In addition, protesters, including UCLA students, were arrested in  Westwood, again for violation of curfew. They were brought to Jackie Robinson Stadium on LAPD buses  after LAPD tried to commandeer a 720 Metro Bus but failed to maneuver it through the streets. We share  these details because if you do not already know them, you must know them now. We write to express our deep concern about these events and the matter of UCLA collaboration  with LAPD and other police forces. In recent days, UCLA leadership has shared statements of solidarity  denouncing institutionalized racism and recognizing the importance of protest against such racism. Last  night’s use of Jackie Robinson Stadium stands in sharp hypocrisy to these statements. We have heard  from our students and we agree that such solidarity statements must be accompanied not by  collaboration with the police but by concrete steps that move us towards the divestment of UCLA from  LAPD and other forms of policing, similar to the prompt action taken by the President of the University of  Minnesota following the murder of Mr. George Floyd. In the coming months, we intend to work towards  this goal in partnership with student and community organizations. We look forward to being in dialogue  and alliance with you on this.1 That said, we also seek a full accounting of the events of last evening. The Jackie Robinson Stadium is a UCLA facility, implicating all of us in the use of that space to detain protestors and process arrests. It  is our understanding that UCLA holds the lease to the Jackie Robinson Stadium and its parking lots, which  sit on VA grounds. We ask for a detailed, public statement on the chain of events, decisions, and command  lines that led to the use of this facility by LAPD and its mobile processing units last evening and a copy of  any agreements that may govern LAPD’s use of this UCLA facility. We also ask for an immediate cessation  of the use of this facility or any other UCLA facility by LAPD and other police forces. Last evening, UCLA students were arrested for engaging in the constitutionally protected right to  peacefully protest against racial injustice, which is pervasive in American policing. They were detained and  processed at a stadium on their own campus named after Jackie Robinson, an icon of the long and  unfinished struggle for Black freedom. Today many of them are trying to complete final examinations and  final assignments. This is not the UCLA education and experience that they deserve.  But this is not just about our students. As UCLA faculty, we refuse to allow our university to serve  as a police outpost at this moment of national uprising and at any other time. As a public university, we  serve the public and our students, and this in turn requires dismantling the mechanisms of punishment  that have historically caused undeniable harm to communities in Los Angeles. A few days ago, we were glad to read your statement which noted: "Still, we recognize that UCLA  also can and must do better. As campus leaders, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that our policies and  actions value the lives, safety and dignity of every Bruin." This is our chance to do better. We look forward to receiving a full and detailed accounting of last evening’s incident and to  working with you and the rest of the UCLA leadership on divestment from collaborations with LAPD and  other police forces. Sincerely, Ananya Roy Professor of Urban Planning, Social Welfare, and Geography The Meyer and Renee Luskin Chair in Inequality and Democracy Director, UCLA Luskin Institute on Inequality and Democracy Hannah Appel Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Global Studies Associate Director, UCLA Luskin Institute on Inequality and Democracy Laura Abrams Professor and Chair of Social Welfare Karen Umemoto Helen and Morgan Chu Chair, Asian American Studies Center Professor of Urban Planning and Asian American Studies Michael Lens Associate Professor of Urban Planning and Public Policy Associate Director, UCLA Lewis Center for Regional Policy Studies2 Kelly Lytle Hernández Professor of History, African American Studies, and Urban Planning The Thomas E. Lifka Endowed Chair of History Director, Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies at UCLA Director, Million Dollar Hoods Mishuana Goeman (Tonawanda Band of Seneca) Associate Professor of Gender Studies Chair of American Indian Studies IDP Special Advisor to the Chancellor on Native American and Indigenous Affairs Eric Avila Chair and Professor, César E. Chávez Department of Chicana and Chicano Studies Professor of History and Urban Planning Gaye Theresa Johnson Associate Professor of African American Studies and Chicana and Chicano Studies Leisy Abrego Professor of Chicana and Chicano Studies Maite Zubiaurre Professor of Germanic Languages and Spanish & Portuguese Aradhna Tripati Associate Professor, UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability Director and Founder, UCLA Center for Diverse Leadership in Science Rachel C. Lee Director, Center for the Study of Women Professor of English, Gender Studies & the Institute of Society and Genetics Elizabeth Marchant Chair of Gender Studies Associate Professor of Gender Studies and Comparative Literature Sherene H. Razack Distinguished Professor of Gender Studies Penny Kanner Endowed Chair in Women's Studies Grace Kyungwon Hong Associate Director, Center for the Study of Women Professor of Asian American Studies and Gender Studies Vinay Lal Professor of History and Asian American Studies3 Matt Barreto Professor of Political Science Chris Tilly Professor of Urban Planning Kent Wong Director, UCLA Labor Center Abel Valenzuela Jr. Special Advisor to the Chancellor on Immigration Policy Director, Institute for Research on Labor and Employment Professor of Chicana/o Studies and Urban Planning Sonja Diaz, Director, Latino Policy and Politics Initiative Paul Ong Professor of Urban Planning and Asian American Studies Director, UCLA Center for Neighborhood Knowledge Victor Bascara Chair and Associate Professor of Asian American Studies Renee Tajima-Peña Professor of Asian American Studies Director, UCLA Center for EthnoCommunications Akhil Gupta Professor of Anthropology  Director, Center for India and South Asia Chon Noriega Professor of Film, Television, and Digital Media Director, UCLA Chicano Studies Research Center Shannon Speed (Chickasaw) Professor of Gender Studies and Anthropology Director, American Indian Studies Center Chandra L. Ford Associate Professor of Department of Community Health Sciences Director, Center for the Study of Racism, Social Justice & Health Bryonn Bain Associate Professor of African American Studies and World Arts and Cultures/ Dance Director, UCLA Prison Education Program4 Marcus Anthony Hunter Scott Waugh Endowed Chair in the Division of the Social Sciences Professor of Sociology Chair, Department of African American Studies Noah Zatz Professor of Law Eric Sheppard Professor of Geography Anastasia Loukaitou-Sideris Professor of Urban Planning Associate Dean, UCLA Luskin School of Public Affairs E. Tendayi Achiume Professor of Law, Faculty Director, Promise Institute for Human Rights United Nations Special Rapporteur on Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related  Intolerance Walter Allen Distinguished Professor, Allan Murray Cartter Professor of Higher Education Sameer M. Ashar Vice Dean for Experiential Education and Professor of Law Devon Carbado  Associate Vice Chancellor of BruinX for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion The Honorable Harry Pregerson Professor of Law Jessica Cattelino Professor of Anthropology Kamari Clark  Professor of Anthropology LaToya Baldwin Clark Assistant Professor of Law at UCLA School of Law Cheryl Harris Rosalinde and Arthur Gilbert Professor in Civil Rights and Civil Liberties UCLA Law School Peter Hudson Professor of History and African American Studies Jasleen Kohli Director, Critical Race Studies Program, UCLA School of Law5 Jemima Pierre Professor of Anthropology and African American Studies Brad Sears Associate Dean of Public Interest Law, UCLA School of Law Caroline Streeter  Professor of English Jason Throop Professor and Chair of Anthropology Alicia Viriani Associate Director of the Criminal Justice Program at UCLA School of Law Alex L. Wang Professor of Law Karin Wang Executive Director, Epstein Program and Professor from Practice, UCLA School of Law Andrew Whitcup Lecturer, UCLA School of Law Daniel G. Solorzano Professor of Social Science & Comparative Education Kimberlé Crenshaw Distinguished Professor of Law, Promise Institute Chair in Human Rights, UCLA School of Law Brenda Kim Manager of Operations and Events, Office of Public Interest Programs, UCLA School of Law Joseph P. Berra Human Rights in the Americas Project Director, UCLA School of Law Kate Mackintosh Executive Director, Promise Institute for Human Rights, UCLA School of Law Laura Gómez Professor of Law Faculty Director, Critical Race Studies Program at UCLA Law Beth A. Colgan Professor of Law cc: UCLA leaders who signed the May 31, 2020, solidarity statement6  Michael Meranze Chair, Academic Senate Michael J. Beck Administrative Vice Chancellor Gregg Goldman Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer Monroe Gorden, Jr. Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Jerry Kang Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Michael S. Levine Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel John Mazziotta Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences; CEO, UCLA Health Louise C. Nelson Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs Mary Osako Vice Chancellor for Strategic Communications Rhea Turteltaub Vice Chancellor for External Affairs Roger Wakimoto Vice Chancellor for Research Yolanda J. Gorman Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff Dan Guerrero The Alice and Nahum Lainer Family Director of Athletics Antonio E. Bernardo Dean, Anderson School of Management Ronald S. Brookmeyer Dean, Fielding School of Public Health Eric Bullard Dean, Continuing Education and UCLA Extension Miguel A. García-Garibay Dean, Division of Physical Sciences Robin L. Garrell Vice Provost, Graduate Education; Dean, Graduate Division Darnell M. Hunt Dean, Division of Social Sciences Brian Kite Interim Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television Paul H. Krebsbach Dean, School of Dentistry Kelsey Martin Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine Jennifer L. Mnookin Dean, School of Law Jayathi Y. Murthy Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science Linda Sarna Dean, School of Nursing Gary M. Segura Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs David Schaberg Dean, Division of Humanities Victoria Sork Dean, Division of Life Sciences Brett Steele Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture Eileen Strempel Dean, The Herb Alpert School of Music Marcelo Suárez-Orozco Dean, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies Pat Turner Senior Dean, College; Dean and Vice Provost, Undergraduate Education Tony Lee Chief of UCLA Police Department Naomi Riley President, Undergraduate Students Association Jean Paul Santos President, Graduate Students Association7 
growing) Black-white wealth disparity. We ask that Penn State increase the resources it
devotes to recruiting Black and underrepresented students including allocating
scholarships for Black undergraduates and predoctoral, doctoral and postdoctoral
fellowships for Black graduate students so that we can successfully recruit them and
they can graduate debt-free;

6) Increase Mental Health Resources for Black Students: Racial and ethnic
minorities are harmed by racial and ethnic microaggressions and other activities that
define their Penn State experience. As a result, they are disproportionately represented
among those seeking increased mental health resources. Yet, their academic success
depends on their ability to maintain emotional and psychological health. The creation of
equity and greater diversity means that we must develop resources that support their
success, despite these unfair conditions. We call for a renewed focus on the recruitment
and retention of mental health professionals who better represent the diversity of our
student body and can better serve their needs.

The time for change is long overdue, as global and local protests over the last 3 weeks
have demonstrated. We stand with our students in demanding that this university do
better. We call on Penn State to become a local and national leader in combating
systemic anti-Black racism on its campuses and eradicating police violence and all
forms of state and nonstate violence wherever it is found. We look forward to your
response.

Respectfully,
The African American Studies Department, afam@psu.edu
16 June 2020



Agenda/Outline for DEI Meeting Working with students, faculty, and postdocs in DEES and at Lamont, we have compiled a list of demands to address diversity, equity, and inclusion on our campus. Goals:Briefly summarize past/ongoing DEI actions/initiatives at LDEO Outline immediate, short, and long term goals for DEI action at Lamont and DEESOffer a broad outline/direction for the DEI Task Force, GSC, and other groupsDiscuss timelines and budgets Determine where the DEI goals of DEES and LDEO intersect and how to support bothHow do you feel about all of the points above and are there any other DEI goals that have not been addressed?Below are immediate, short term, and long term recommendations to address these concerns:
Black Lives Matter. A Commitment to Action from UCI ESS Faculty and Graduate Student Leaders Dear ESS family, In collaboration with grad students and faculty, we send our strong statement of solidarity and long-term commitment to ending anti-Black racism. This commitment is a starting point meant to initialize a continued dialogue and, through our actions, to move the ESS department in a direction of anti-racism. We intend this letter to be revised as we learn and hear more of the voices and needs of the community served by ESS. First of all, where we stand: Black Lives Matter. We are heartbroken and outraged by the continued anti-Black racism and police brutality in this country, including in our local area. We recognize that many of us continue to benefit from white privilege, while other members of our ESS community have faced discrimination, microaggressions, overt racism, and police brutality to an extent that many of us cannot fully understand. We acknowledge that the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were not isolated instances; that the officers responsible are not anomalies within an otherwise functioning law enforcement system, and we stand in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement against these injustices. Lastly, we acknowledge that systemic racism and implicit biases are pervasive in academia, and we recognize our responsibility to change that system. Second, what we are committing to: ● We are committed to amplifying Black voices in science. These actions can include ESS seminars, curricula, social media, and department events. We will increase our seminar invitations to Black scientists. We will make efforts to recognize more Black researchers in our undergraduate and graduate courses. We will expand our curriculum and encourage discussion of relevant environmental and climate justice issues during our courses and seminars. We will regularly feature Black scientists and their research on our website, on social media, and in other venues. ● We are committing to increasing efforts to recruit and retain Black students, researchers, and faculty. We remain committed to our mission of creating an equitable, diverse, and inclusive community within the ESS department at all levels. We have ongoing efforts, yet we acknowledge that we still have a long way to go. Black scholars remain underrepresented among the ESS faculty and student population, as well as in the broader geoscience community. We commit to increasing efforts to recruit and support Black students, including through our participation in programs such as the AGU Bridge Program and the UC-HBCU Initiative, through outreach to underserved K-12 schools, community colleges, and minority serving institutions, and through mentorship programs and UCI programs such as DECADE. We will work to ensure that everyone within ESS can receive training in implicit bias and mentoring. We will continually monitor and seek to improve our graduate admission and faculty hiring processes to follow best practices based on diversity and equity research. Third, we acknowledge the intersectionality of Blackness with other aspects of identity. The above stances and commitments shall be broadened where relevant to other underrepresented minorities (URMs) and people of color in STEM.● For seminars, we will aim for at least one seminar per quarter to focus on community engagement in addition to science. ● For social media and scientific events, we will feature URM scientists and celebrate specific communities especially during relevant times such as Black History Month, Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, Hispanic Heritage Month, Native American Heritage Month, Women’s History Month, LGBTQ+ Pride Month, etc. ● For our undergraduate and graduate curricula, we encourage instructors to incorporate elements of anti-racism into each course where relevant to the scientific material, including perspectives from impacted communities, discussion of inequities, and texts/media from minority voices. In the coming months, we will compile relevant articles, case studies, and teaching materials that can be utilized by ESS instructors. ● In addition, we encourage everyone to evaluate how their research impacts disenfranchised communities, incorporates aspects of environmental and climate justice, and engages with affected community members in the process of research. ● In Fall 2020, we will teach a graduate seminar course (ESS 280A) dedicated to diversity and inclusion in STEM. One goal of this course will be to develop a draft code of principles for anti-racist teaching, research, and community engagement in ESS. ● Above all, we commit to listening to and learning from our community, including undergraduate and graduate students, researchers, faculty, and staff. Fourth, we want to share the resources and reporting structures available to anyone who experiences racism or other forms of discrimination on campus. The Office of Equal Opportunity and Diversity has reporting information, including an anonymous option. Other resources include CARE and DECADE, as well as faculty and staff in ESS if you are comfortable: ● Kathleen Johnson, Vice Chair of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ● Isabella Velicogna, Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, Equity, and Inclusion ● Kate Mackey, DECADE faculty mentor ● Melanie Nakanishi, Student Affairs Manager ● Eric Rignot, Chair Finally, support groups and other resources are available through the UCI Center for Black Cultures, Resources, and Research. Fifth, we recognize that individuals within our community may want to take additional actions. Here are some ideas and resources: ● Support and donate to organizations fighting anti-Black racism. ● Educate ourselves, our families, and our friends: Listen, read, learn, advocate for change, apologize when we make mistakes, repeat. ● Think carefully about how we seek police aid in our daily lives, acknowledging the potential to endanger Black people and other POC. ● Show up. As of this message, peaceful demonstrations are occurring in most cities daily, including in Irvine. ● Diversify our social media feeds; follow and share Black voices. ● Speak out and write to decision-makers about systemic injustice; support science-based policies to combat police brutality; demand police accountability, including for the UCIPD. ● Educate ourselves about diversity, equity, and inclusive excellence; root out anti-Black racism, injustice, and barriers that are pervasive within academia, including at UC Irvine.● Vote in local, state, and federal elections. Signed, Kathleen R. Johnson, Associate Professor and Vice-Chair of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Eric Rignot, Chair, Donald Bren and Chancellor's Professor of Earth System Science, and NAS Member Isabella Velicogna, Professor and Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, Equity, and Inclusion Mathieu Morlighem, Associate Professor and Vice-Chair of Undergraduate Studies Jin-Yi Yu, Professor and Vice-Chair of Graduate Studies Steven Allison, Professor of ESS and EEB, Director of Ridge to Reef Graduate Training Program James Randerson, Ralph J. and Carol M. Cicerone Professor and NAS Member Katherine Mackey, Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor and DECADE Faculty Mentor Shane Coffield and Shivani Ehrenfeucht, PhD Candidates and DECADE student representatives Robert Fofrich, Audrey Odwuor, and Nicola Wiseman, PhD Candidates/Students and Graduate Student Representatives Julie Ferguson, Associate Teaching Professor Elizabeth Crook, Assistant Teaching Professor Michael Pritchard, Associate Professor Saewung Kim, Associate Professor Charlie Zender,Professor Eric Saltzman, Professor Gudrun Magnusdottir, Professor Ellen Druffel, Fred Kavli Chair in Earth System Science, Distinguished Professor of ESS, and NAS Member Benis Egoh, Assistant Professor Michael Goulden, Professor Susan Trumbore, Professor and NAS Member Alex Guenther, Professor Paulo Brando, Assistant Professor Claudia Czimzik, Associate Professor Steve Davis, Associate Professor Francois Primeau, Professor Michael Prather, Professor Adam Martiny, Professor of ESS and EEB Murat Aydin, Associate Researcher Efi Foufoula-Georgiou Henry Samueli Endowed Chair, Distinguished Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering and ESS, member of NAYannick Peings, Assistant Researcher Keith Moore, Professor
October, 2020Dear Dean Watkins and the Graduate Division,We, the Black students of the Graduate Division, unite our voices with those in the Schools of Medicine and Dentistry in a fight against anti-Blackness in STEM. A University that espouses to champion ‘principles of community’ and PRIDE values cannot exist within an institution that perpetuates racial inequities. Science has a racism problem  and UCSF is no exception.We would like to thank the Graduate Division Leadership for organizing, listening, and   of the student petition. It is our goal to continually urge the administration to combat structural racism in an effort to empower current and future Black trainees. We ask that this mission be upheld according to the following demands, which were drafted and edited by graduate students of BE-STEM:Action Items for Dismantling Institutional Racism and Achieving Racial Equity for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) Trainees at UCSF[By Q1 2021] Collect and publish annual demographic data on BIPOC. A transparent record is required to evaluate progress and establish accountability toward racial equity. This annual public report must include:Data that resolves the generic reporting of “underrepresented minorities” (URM), “Black/African American”, and “International” for students, faculty, staff and post-docs. Specifically, it must inform on BIPOC identities including, but not limited to: American Descendant of Slavery (ADOS), African-American, Afro-Carribean, Afro-Indigenous, Chicano/a and modeled after the Graduate Division’s .Details on existing efforts that outreach to and recruit BIPOC scholars, including: conferences attended, universities visited, list of applicants (applied, accepted, and matriculated), and the list of UCSF personnel involved in recruitment. Statistics on the demographic enrolled in UCSF’s  (SRTP) and their matriculation into graduate programs.Statistics on the demographic of students participating in outreach efforts to primary schools under the umbrella of SEP.[By Q1 2021] Establish a specific and centralized budget to recruit Black graduate students. Currently, each graduate program independently recruits its graduate students with the expectation that they share the Graduate Divisions commitment to creating a diverse and inclusive student body. Under this system, Black candidates are underrepresented among those invited for on-campus interviews, and, in turn, are underrepresented throughout the incoming classes of most graduate programs. We ask that the Graduate Division take an active role in chartering best practices that can be implemented across graduate programs to effectively recruit and retain Black graduate students.Establish a paid position within the Graduate Division to develop recruitment pipelines between UCSF and national & international undergraduate and master’s degree programs in STEM that predominantly enroll BIPOC students.Guarantee annual visits to UCSF, which may function as a recruitment event, for students from these partnering institutions.Compensate UCSF graduate students for recruiting on behalf of the Graduate Division at SACNAS, ABRCMS, or any other conference.[By Q1 2021]  Expand current programs and develop new outreach initiatives  to serve Black communities.Expand the  (SEP) to ensure Bay Area schools disproportionately serving Black students in science are included and financially compensate all its participants for their work and travel expenses. Establish a paid long-term student-mentorship program where UCSF trainees can mentor 1-2 students selected from SEP-partnered classrooms over at least 2 academic semesters, as studies have shown that  [2]. Additional funds should be made available for essential educational resources and meals for participating mentors and students.Increase awareness of existing educational outreach programs housed by the  (CSEO) and provide equitable financial supplementation for participating mentors/labs as well as transportation and meals for the program’s students. [By Q1 2021] Equitably compensate Black students involved in programming that supports Black communities and/or the academic retention of Black scholars. Black student-mentors and -leaders divert time from their research to fulfill an unmet need in supporting fellow Black trainees. The University is a benefactor of this uncompensated work, which includes retention of Black trainees, that reinforces the sense of community at UCSF.  We recognize that many organizations at UCSF support BIPOC individuals in STEM. However, funding for many of these programs are regulated by GPSA/ASGD and grossly limited.  As such, we demand the following:University-provided accounts or credit cards to replace the current reimbursement system, which imposes an unnecessary financial burden on trainees.Bank accounts where additional funds can be directly allocated to RCOs that serve BIPOC learners. These funds should supplement the amount provided by  ASGD and GPSA and will aid in community building for current and future Black trainees.Development of the “Diversity Fellows Program” Expansion of mentorship and leadership awards (with financial compensation)An annual conference for diversity-oriented RCOs to promote community and develop collaborations.[By Q3 2021] Reallocate resources in an equitable fashion to improve the experience of Black learners and thereby improve retention. When Black learners are recruited to UCSF, a predominantly white institution, they often struggle to find community, adapt to the high cost of living, and to utilize professional development resources that are often couched in structural racism. These problems are further compounded by structural racism that has engendered socioeconomic disadvantages for Black students in particular (redlining, racist allocation of government grants, etc). UCSF should work as an institution to overcome these structural barriers to the success and retention of Black students by implementing the following: Invest in infrastructure to support the well-being of Black members of our community. The well-being of Black students will rely, in part, on their access to safe spaces on campus. However, neither of UCSF’s campuses provide a physical infrastructure offering reprieve for Black students, particularly at a time when Black Americans are disproportionately persecuted. A financial commitment of $1.5 million should be allocated to identify and/or create such spaces at Mission Bay and Parnassus that are independent of the Multicultural Resource Centers and prioritized for use by Black students.Emergency/Access Fund: UCSF should make available funds to help students, especially those who are first-generation and low income, to alleviate the stress that comes with covering basic needs, emergency expenses, etc. See Cornell:  Professional Development Fund: As UCSF claims to be a champion at diversity and inclusion, it is imperative it takes steps to level the scales. As such, UCSF should allocate funds in the form of awards for Black students through diversity-oriented RCOs, such as BE-STEM, which can be used for professional development resources, courses, workshops, or travel. While there are already funds available, this is widespread throughout the student body, and also poorly advertised. By having this guaranteed funding structure, it is easier for Black students to have a conversation with their advisors regarding these experiences, and the barriers to achieving such goals as a graduate student are reduced. Facilitating these interactions and conversations, through materializing a Professional Development Fund will also aid in the retention of Black students.Legal Aid: Black individuals are more likely to experience negative encounters with law enforcement, and discriminatory practices in numerous settings. Additionally, some Black individuals may have a non-US citizenship status or families outside the US. UCSF should acknowledge this hardship by providing and advertising legal resources to Black students. These resources would provide peace of mind and allow students to thrive during their time as a UCSF trainee.[By Q2 2021] Hire two additional BIPOC clinicians for Student Health and Counseling Services (SHCS). Under the guidance of Dr. Jeanne Stanford, SHCS has increased the diversity of its staff and maintains the lowest ratio of counselors to students (1 to 533) in the  UC system, in compliance with the International Accreditation of Counseling Services (IACS). However, there is data to suggest that the mental and emotional needs of Black graduate students at UCSF are not being met by the resources provided by SHCS. For instance, the recommendations set forth by IACS are intended for traditional universities, which predominantly comprise undergraduate students. Since UCSF is an exclusively graduate institution, adherence to these guidelines may not constitute sufficient mental health resources for our graduate students. Furthermore, “graduate students are more than six times as likely to experience anxiety and depression as compared to the general population” . Therefore, it is not enough that UCSF is ranked #1 among the UC’s; SHCS must be held to a higher standard if we are to effectively support our students. 	SHCS provide a critical service to non-white graduate students. In the 2019-2020 academic year, 47% of SHCS’s clients were graduate students (16% SON, 12% SOM, 11% SOP, 9% SOD, & 5% PT) and 61% of its clients were non-white. According to SHCS, overrepresentation of non-white clients disproportionately burdens POC clinicians, who are requested at noticeably higher rates by POC students. Relatedly, POC students typically forfeit earlier appointments with white clinicians to accommodate the shortage of POC clinicians. For some, however, access to counseling services may be time-sensitive. The need for available therapy has become increasingly urgent amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the disproportionate killing of unarmed Black people, and as our nation collectively reckons its history of racism  &. [Immediately] Fund the salary of the Assistant Dean for Diversity and Learner Success, D’Anne Duncan, and increase the number of hired full-time support staff to aid in equity and inclusion measures who serve to benefit Black students in the graduate division from a sustainable and equitable source. D’Anne Duncan has operated as the sole DEI advocate for BIPOC students in the Graduate Division, since being hired in 2017. Since then, she has become the administrator and coordinator for a number of DEI efforts in the Graduate Division including (but not limited to): SRTP, IMSD, UC-LEADS. In addition to this programming, D’Anne serves as an academic advisor to many BIPOC students and is developing a course for the betterment of all learner experiences. While we appreciate that there’s a current search to hire a program manager, we believe that a bigger team is needed to accomplish the necessary work in increasing equity. The university can address this as follows: Hire, at least, two staff members dedicated full-time to DEI efforts that come from diverse backgrounds to aid in equity and inclusion measures who serve to benefit Black students in the graduate division. We are aware that UCSF has instituted a hiring freeze for this year. However, the freeze specifically stipulated that “[d]uring this period, we will consider exceptions, with a focus on positions that are essential to supporting our mission and operations through this crisis.” These words were written while the crisis at the forefront of the minds of many was COVID-19. However, we must also address the constant crisis of racism. On June 9th, Chancellor Hawgood stated that UCSF “must continue the hard work of dismantling...structural barriers of racism in education [and] research”. We strongly believe that hiring at least two additional support staff, thus expanding the current search, is critical to supporting UCSF’s stated mission of educating and supporting trainees of color.Change the salary source of the Assistant Dean for Diversity and Learner Success, D’Anne Duncan, to be more equitable and sustainable and abolish admission fees. Currently, the salary of the Assistant Dean for Diversity and Learner Success, D’Anne Duncan, and office related expenses are funded entirely by admission fees. Increasing the amount of fee waivers or removing admissions fees altogether is an effective strategy for recruiting students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Thus, we believe that funding the Assistant Dean for Diversity and Learner Success from a demonstrably exclusionary source, such as admissions fees, is antithetical to UCSF goals of supporting DEI. We request the following changes to remediate this problem:A continuous decrease of 5% in the admissions fees yearly and an increase of 20% in the number of fee waivers offered yearly to increase equity during recruitment, with the ultimate goal of abolishing exclusionary barriers of entryA public report on the amount of fee waivers offered and a streamlined process of requesting fee waiversEstablishment of a sustainable and equitable funding source for the Assistant Dean for Diversity and Learner Success and its Program Managers[Immediately] Include and compensate Black students and postdocs in faculty meetings, groups and/or task forces involved in making policy decisions that directly affect trainees, faculty hires, and student recruitment, admission, and retention across all graduate departments and programsTrainees should be financially compensated for the time commitment to participate in those meetings. Hours to be compensated include both meeting time and time for prior research, reading materials, slack and email communication required to prepare for these meetings. Hourly payment should start at $20/hr in 2020 and be adjusted yearly according to inflation.Required participation of a paid expert consultant who specializes and has a background in studying institutionalized racism and/or studies the history of BIPOC people in these task forces to provide scholarly knowledge to discussions, adding depth and context to the opinions of trainees, faculty, and administration. We also ask that these individuals are vetted and agreed upon by diversity RCOs like BE-STEM, and are given decision-making capabilities. Upon discord, these individuals should be granted the ability to act on behalf of the unheard voices from BIPOC graduate students. This position should be respected and their voices should be heard, whether they relay the voice or experience of one student or more students, to avoid serious experience dilution problems, that overtime lead to and perpetuate gaslighting, and loss in retention of Black studentsThe task force should also include members that have knowledge of what university policies are currently in place, of the history of implementing such policies and know how quickly suggestions can be taken into action under the current policiesTask Forces should meet with the Chancellor Executive team soon after the establishment of the committee to present recommendations that need to be enacted immediately (30-day suggestions) and follow-up meetings to assess whether recommendations were enacted and successful to address the issues.[By Q1 2021] Implement transparent and easily accessible policies and actions for recognition and reporting of racist actions or behavior (including suspected) of any UCSF employee to be met with repercussions and/or punishment for these offenses. We demand the creation of a post similar to a CARE advocate that can help navigate the policies regarding filing a complaint about discrimination and harassment specifically regarding race, so complainant knows what to expect before filing a complaintCodifying common discriminatory behavior  (microaggression x harassment x discrimination x retaliation) and its corresponding punishment (reduction of salary, demotion, suspension, dismissal, among other sanctions outlined in APM 016) and rehabilitation. These rules should be laid out publicly on the OPHD, ODO, Academic Senate, Graduate Division and Postdocs Office websites, and communication of them should be part of training events for faculty and trainees.Discriminatory actions that result in reduction in salary should result in reallocation of reduced salary to the initiatives listed above.Transparency regarding the process to remove problematic faculty with the Academic Senate. Per the sanctions outlined in APM 016, we require that faculty found repeatedly guilty of discrimination and harassment on the basis of race to be punished with the most severe sanction: dismissal. Retaliatory practices should result in dismissal even if the accused faculty had no previous complaints.[By Q2 2021] Defunding and divestment of the UCPD, reallocating funds to build alternative roles to address the needs of UC students, faculty, and employees and to items outlined in 2 through 7.Some students have grown up in neighborhoods that were over policed and the police presence at UCSF is retraumatizing. There’s no empirical data that we can rehabilitate racist police, however, there’s empirical evidence that implicit bias training does not lead to behavior change ,  therefore the only solution left is to remove problematic police officers and security guards on campus. Therefore, we ask that UCSF reduce police force on campus by 30%- 50% this year and freeze hiring for 5-years; reassess thereafter.With the reduction in the police force, reallocate funds following  We look forward to your prompt response.In Unwavering Solidarity,Black Excellence in STEM (BE-STEM) at UCSF____________________________________References:[1]	“Science Has a Racism Problem.,” Cell, vol. 181, no. 7. Elsevier, pp. 1443–1444, 09-Jun-2020. [2]	Booker, K and Brevard, E. “Why Mentoring Matters: African-American Students and the Transition to College”, The Mentor: Innovative Scholarship on Academic Advising, vol. 19 (2017). [3] 	Evans, T., Bira, L., Gastelum, J. et al. Evidence for a mental health crisis in graduate education. Nat Biotechnol 36, 282–284 (2018). [4]	Fatal Force: Police shootings database. (2020, January 22). Retrieved September 09, 2020, from [5]	Czeisler, M.E. et. al.  — United States, June 24–30, 2020. MMWR 69, 1049-1057 (2020). [6]	Issuing Authority This guidance document was issued upon approval of the Chair of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (n.d.). Facts about Race/Color Discrimination. Retrieved from [7]	Dobbin, Frank, and Alexandra Kalev. 2018. “”. Anthropology Now 10 (2):48-55. [8]	Forscher, P. S., Lai, C. K., Axt, J. R., Ebersole, C. R., Herman, M., Devine, P. G., & Nosek, B. A. (2019). A meta-analysis of procedures to change implicit measures. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 117(3), 522–559.		 	
3. Reassertion of the Department of Justice in its statutory authority to investigate
individual instances of racial profiling, police brutality and violence; and investigate and
litigate individual law enforcement officers and police departments routinely violating civil
rights

4. Adopt sound and unbiased law enforcement policies at all levels of government that
reduce the disparate impact of police brutality, racial profiling and use of force on Black
and Brown people and other historically marginalized communities

At the state level, we demand you:

5. Create a “Special Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training” to enact
policies that certify police officers and enables the decertification of police officers for
misconduct and abuse (H2146)

6. Create an Office of Diversity and Equal Opportunity that will establish a peace officer
exam advisory board to review appointments and the promotions of police officers. As
well as establish guidelines for diversity plans for all state agencies (H2292)

7. The establishment of a commission that studies the systemic and structural racism that
has led to the disproportionate number of minorities in the criminal justice system
(H1440)

8. The adoption of clear limits for police use of force, including choke—holds, and the
requirement of both 1) independent investigations of officer—related deaths, and 2) data
collection and reporting by every department on the racial make—up of all arrests and
police uses of force

At the local level, we demand you:

9. Declare Racism as a Public Health Crisis, so that the socioeconomic and health
disparities can finally receive appropriate assessment, treatment, and financial
investment.

10. Create a Civil Review Board/Commission with subpoena power to investigate allegations
of law enforcement wrongdoing

Hoping for a just future,

The Woods Hole research community


Black Excellence in STEM (BE—STEM) at UCSF

References:

[1] “Science Has a Racism Problem.,” Cell, vol. 181, no. 7. Elsevier, pp. 1443—1444,
09—Jun—2020. https://doi.org/10.1016/i.ce|l.2020.06.009

[2] Booker, K and Brevard, E. “Why Mentoring Matters: African—American Students and the
Transition to College”, The Mentor: Innovative Scholarship on Academic Advising, vol. 19

(2017). https://doi.org/10.26209/MJ1961245
[3] Evans, T., Bira, L., Gastelum, J. et al. Evidence for a mental health crisis in graduate

education. Nat Biotechnol 36, 282—284 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1038/nbt.4089
[4] Fatal Force: Police shootings database. (2020, January 22). Retrieved September 09,
2020, from

https://www.washingtonpostcom/graphics/investigations/police-shootings—database/

[5] Czeisler, M.E. et. al. Mental Health, Substance Use, and Suicidal ldeation During the
COVlD—19 Pandemic — United States, June 24—30, 2020. MMWR 69, 1049—1057 (2020).

[6] Issuing Authority This guidance document was issued upon approval of the Chair of the
US. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (n.d.). Facts about Race/Color
Discrimination. Retrieved from

https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/facts-about-racecolor-discrimination
[7] Dobbin, Frank, and Alexandra Kalev. 2018. “Why Diversity Training Doesn’t Work: The

Challenge for Industry and Academia”. Anthropology Now 10 (2):48—55.

https://doi.org/10.1080/19428200.2018.1493182
[8] Forscher, P. S., Lai, C. K., Axt, J. R., Ebersole, C. R., Herman, M., Devine, P. G., & Nosek,

B. A. (2019). A meta—analysis of procedures to change implicit measures. Journal of
Personality and Social Psychology, 117(3), 522—559. https://doi.org/10.1037/pspa0000160


2/11/2021 Petition - Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal - Change .org

Impact Press
Careers

Team

SUPPORT CONNECT
Help Twitter
Guides Facebook
Privacy

Policies

Cookies

English (United States) V

© 2021, Change.org, PBC Certified B Corporation
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy_ and Terms of Service apply.

 

 

https://www.change.org/p/rev—john—i—jenkins—c—s—c—notre—dame—black—alumni—appeal 22/22


a minimum of four or more culturally relevant entertainment ( musicians, comedians, film
series, etc.) per academic year.

A. We require APPS to consult with the respective cultural organizations on campus: Asian
Student Association (ASA), Black Student Association (BSA), Latin Hispanic Alliance (LSA),
and the Native American Student Association (NASA) representatives when
planning/facilitating cultural programming.

B. We demand that representatives from the four organizations: ASA, BSA, HSA, and NASA
have seats from each organization appointed for their collaboration in ongoing planning
for Cultural Awareness and Student Engagement (CASE) programs.

C. Student Engagement and Leadership/Campus Activities staff should be trained to
properly screen events to identify potentially racist and/or culturally insensitive events.

WE DEMAND that Campus Activities and Code of Student Conduct policies include severe
discipline and educational intervention for all clubs and organizations affiliated with the
university that host culturally insensitive events. Furthermore, the student conduct board
should increase its racial and ethnic diversity by advertising positions on the board to
organizations serving marginalized and underrepresented students. This includes, but is not

limited to, the Black Student Association, the Black Student-Athlete Association, Appalachian
Social Justice Educators, etc.

EndowmentlScholarship

WE DEMAND that the University increase the level of marketing regarding its diversity
scholarship opportunities to incoming and ongoing students at the university. In addition, we
demand that the university cultivate more scholarship opportunities for marginalized people
that are not directly allotted by a merit-based scholarship designation.

Past and Existing diversity and inclusion committees have historically been a place for
conversation. This is a time for action and implementation. WE DEMAND the creation of a
standing committee charged with accountable implementation of equity initiatives. This
committee should consist of nine individuals including Black students, faculty, staff, and alumni.

WE DEMAND that all of our demands be fully implemented within the next 36 months and
that Chancellor Sheri Everts give us an official response no later than

Friday, July 10, 2020, 5 PM EST.


Copy of Email to Department:
Subject: ‘21 BFA Printmaking Departmental Propositions
Dear RISD Printmaking Faculty and Students,

As members of this institution, and both witnesses and victims to its violence, the Printmaking
Class of 2021 recognizes our complacency in waiting to break our silence. We need to be more
alert and proactive so that Black, Indigenous, and non—Black people of color, who are already
vulnerable to systemic oppression, aren’t forced to speak out at their own risk. We are grateful
for the students advocating for BIPOC through the RISD & Race Forum, RISD Anti-Racism
Coalition, BlackAtRisd, and all other organizations challenging institutional racism. We will
continue to support their work and demand transparency and action from our specific
department in addition to RISD as a whole. Attached is our group statement which proposes a
number of solutions, both short term and long term, with the intention of supporting our BIPOC
faculty and students as well as addressing departmental ailments.

Statement of Intent:

Given the lackluster departmental response, in essence shifting much blame to lack of
funding and bureaucratic difficulties, we, the undergraduate Class of 2021, would like to work
towards facilitating departmental longevity and remedy a number of issues that currently all our
institutional experience, specifically with the aim of prioritizing BIPOC voices and their
involvement. The following contains a short list of potential initiatives, some of which require
zero funding and simply the continued effort of faculty. However, others will take real time, work,
and reallocation of funds. We must reflect on the ways in which we have harmed Black people
and act by redistributing the resources, power, and security that privilege has rewarded us. We
expect and require continued transparency and dialogue moving forward to ensure that we can
make progress given the current circumstances and limitations set by the global pandemic.

We cannot support the department’s response, which shifts culpability and involvement
in systems that actively exclude Black, Indigenous, and people of color at this institution.
Pointing to an overall institutional lack of BIPOC representation as an excuse for an all white,
full—time printmaking faculty is an inadequate justification.

Signed,

Class of 2021 BFA Printmaking



/(77(5 72 7+( 5,6' 7(;7,/( '(3$570(17        ³6ODYH &ORWK´ PDQXIDFWXUHG DW RQH WKH +D]DUG¶V PLOOV LQ 5KRGH ,VODQG 7KHUH LV RQH P\WKLFDO KLVWRU\ RI 3URYLGHQFH WKDW LV ODXGHG  5RJHU :LOOLDPV DQG KLV IHOORZ 5KRGH ,VODQGHUV IUDPHG D FRORQ\ JRYHUQPHQW GHYRWHG WR SURWHFWLQJ LQGLYLGXDO ³OLEHUW\ RI FRQVFLHQFH´ DQG DOO ZDV µFRSDFHWLF¶ ZLWK WKH 1DWLYH $PHULFDQV  ³:KDW &KHHU ´ +RZHYHU  ZLWK WKH OHDVW SRVVLEOH HIIRUW D *RRJOH VHDUFK RI µ7H[WLOHV ¶ µ3URYLGHQFH ¶ µ6ODYHU\¶ WKHUH LV DQ DEXQGDQFH RI LQIRUPDWLRQ WKDW SRLQWV WR WKH FHQWUDO UROH 3URYLGHQFH SOD\HG LQ WKH $WODQWLF 6ODYH 7UDGH  5,6'¶V HDUOLHVW EHQHIDFWRUV ZHUH 7H[WLOH PDQXIDFWXUHUV DQG 5KRGH ,VODQG ZDV DW WKH IRUHIURQW RI WKH ,QGXVWULDO 5HYROXWLRQ ZLWK LWV SRZHU GULYHQ WH[WLOH PLOOV  7R OLYH LQ DQ HWHUQDO SUHVHQW DOORZV IRU D FROOHFWLYH DPQHVLD  7KH µVODYH FORWK¶ SLFWXUHG DERYH LV D SODLQ UHPLQGHU WKDW RXU SUHVHQW LV SUHPLVHG RQ D KLVWRU\ WKDW KDV \HW WR EH DFNQRZOHGJHG 1RW FRQIURQWLQJ ERWK WKH H[SOLFLW DQG LPSOLFLW KLVWRU\ DV D GHSDUWPHQW SHUSHWXDWHV D FXOWXUH RI µ:KLWH 6LOHQFH¶ DQG DOORZV WKH IDFXOW\ DQG VWDII WR DYRLG GRLQJ WKH QHFHVVDU\  FROOHFWLYH ZRUN  7KH 7H[WLOHV 'HSDUWPHQW KDV DQ RSSRUWXQLW\ WR EH FKDQJH OHDGHUV LQ FRQIURQWLQJ 5,6'¶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¶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¶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
ZLWK DSSURYDO  IURP 5,6' 7H[WLOHV VWXGHQW DQG DOXPQL FRPPHQWDU\ DQG SULYDWH PHVVDJHV IROORZLQJ WKH 5,6' 7(;7,/(6 ,QVWDJUDP DFFRXQW SRVW      7KH ,QVWDJUDP SRVW ZDV ZULWWHQ E\ *LQD DQG SRVWHG DIWHU FRQVXOWDWLRQ ZLWK $QDLV  Ɣ 7KHUH LV QRW D GHSDUWPHQWDO FXOWXUH RI VROLGDULW\ UHJDUGLQJ LVVXHV RI DQWL %ODFNQHVV DQG UDFLVP  Ɣ 7KHUH LV D FXOWXUH RI ERWK VXEWOH DQG RYHUW DQWL %ODFNQHVV WKDW QRQ %ODFN VWXGHQWV DQG IDFXOW\ GRQW UHDOO\ GR PXFK WR FRPEDW  ,I DQ\WKLQJ LWV UHLQIRUFHG DV %ODFN VWXGHQWV IHDU UHWDOLDWLRQ DV D FRQVHTXHQFH RI WKH ZKLWH IUDJLOLW\ RI LQGLYLGXDO IDFXOW\ IRU VSHDNLQJ RXW DERXW WKLV  Ɣ 7KHUH LV DQ LQWHQVH HUDVXUH RI %ODFN DQG ,QGLJHRXV 7H[WLOH WUDGLWLRQV Ɣ &XUULFXOD LV SULPDULO\ IRXQGHG RQ (XURSHDQ 7H[WLOH WUDGLWLRQV DQG RFFDVLRQDOO\ VRPH (DVW $VLDQ DQG ,QGLDQ WUDGLWLRQV Ɣ $ FRXUVH LQ WKH +LVWRU\ RI 7H[WLOHV LV QRW UHTXLUHG Ɣ 7KHUH KDV QHYHU EHHQ DQ\ KLVWRULFDO DQDO\VLV RU HYHQ DQ\ PHQWLRQ RI WKH UROH WKDW WKH 5KRGH ,VODQG 7H[WLOH LQGXVWU\ SOD\HG LQ WKH $WODQWLF VODYH WUDGH LQ DQ\ RI P\ FODVVHV LQFOXGLQJ RQHV WDNHQ RQ WKH +LVWRU\ RI 7H[WLOHV  Ɣ 7KHUH DUH QRW 
QRU KDYH WKHUH EHHQ LQ NQRZQ KLVWRU\  DQ\ %ODFN IDFXOW\ Ɣ 7KH GHSDUWPHQW FRQVLVWV DOPRVW H[FOXVLYHO\ RI ZKLWH RU ZKLWH SDVVLQJ IDFXOW\ PHPEHUV Ɣ 6WXGHQWV DUH QRW SURGXFWLYHO\ LQFOXGHG LQ WKH YHWWLQJ RI SRWHQWLDO KLUHV Ɣ 5HJDUGLQJ IDFXOW\  FXUULFXOXP  DQG KHDOWK  ż ³,PDJLQH WKLV ZDV KDSSHQLQJ ZKHQ WKHUH ZDVQ¶W D SDQGHPLF  %ODFN VWXGHQWV ZRXOG EH H[SHFWHG WR ODERU ZKLOH FDUU\LQJ WKH EXUGHQ RI VWDWH VDQFWLRQHG YLROHQFH XSRQ RXU ERGLHV  ZHDYLQJ DQG NQLWWLQJ LQWR GDZQ ´ ż ³7KH FXOWXUH RI WKH ODERU LV DOVR DQWL %ODFN  7R WKHQ EH IHG DUWLVWV DQG UHIHUHQFHV XSKROGLQJ WKH LYRU\ WRZHU VLWV XSRQ ´ ż ³6RPH VWXGHQWV ZRUN MXVW WR KDYH PRQH\ IRU VFKRRO ZKLOH RWKHUV PD\ VLPSO\ GHYRWH WKHPVHOYHV WR WKHLU ZRUN ´ Ɣ 7KHUH LV D ORZ HQUROOPHQW RI %ODFN VWXGHQWV LQ WKH 'HSDUWPHQW  Ɣ 7KHUH LV DQ H[SHULHQFH RI EHLQJ WKH RQO\ RU   RI   %,32& LQ DOO WKHLU FODVVHV  DQG IHHOLQJ D OD\HU RI GLVFRPIRUW LQ QRW EHLQJ XVHG WR DWWHQGLQJ ZKLWH FODVVHV DQG FULWV      IRU   \HDUVƔ 7KH 'HSDUWPHQW GRHV QRW WDNH VWXGHQW FRQFHUQV VHULRXVO\ DERXW IDFXOW\ ZKR FRQVLVWHQWO\ VKRZ WKHLU UDFLVW DQG PLFUR DJJUHVVLYH EHKDYLRU  7KH FRPPHQWDU\ RXWOLQLQJ WKLV LQ VWXGHQW HYDOXDWLRQV LV QRW WDNHQ VHULRXVO\ DQG DFWHG XSRQ  Ɣ 3URIHVVRUV LQ WKH 7H[WLOHV 'HSDUWPHQW GR QRW KDYH WKH FULWLFDO FDSDFLW\ WR HQJDJH ZLWK RU DGYLVH %ODFN VWXGHQWV DURXQG WKHLU ZRUN  7KLV RIWHQ UHVXOWV LQ FULWLTXHV LQ ZKLFK QHLWKHU VWXGHQWV RU SURIHVVRUV DUH SUHSDUHG WR JLYH FULWLFDO IHHGEDFN RU WKH\ JLYH ERULQJ DGYLFH DURXQG KRZ WR PDNH \RXU ZRUN PRUH DFFHVVLEOH WR D ZKLWH DXGLHQFH  Ɣ 6WXGHQW ZRUN KDV EHHQ UHIHUUHG WR DV µSULPLWLYH¶ RQ PXOWLSOH RFFDVLRQV  :KHQ DOHUWHG  WKH 'HSDUWPHQW KDV QRW DFNQRZOHGJHG RU DFWHG XSRQ WKLV HIIHFWLYHO\  Ɣ 6WXGHQWV DUH SURPSWHG WR SDUWLFLSDWH LQ µVRFLDO LVVXH¶ EDVHG DVVLJQPHQWV UHVXOWLQJ LQ VWXGHQWV SHUIRUPLQJ HPRWLRQDO DQG XQSDLG ODERU  WHDFKLQJ PDQ\ SURIHVVRUV DERXW %ODFN  ,QGLJHQRXV  DQG /DWLQ[ WH[WLOH KLVWRULHV DQG FRQWHPSRUDU\ DUWLVWV  7KLV ZLWKRXW WKH SURIHVVRUV GRLQJ WKH ZRUN WR UHVHDUFK DQG XQGHUVWDQG WKH FRQWH[W RU KLVWRU\ LQ RUGHU WR HIIHFWLYHO\ UHVSRQG WR WKH VWXGHQWV¶ ZRUN  7KH VWXGHQW LV WKHQ IRUFHG WR UHOLYH WUDXPD DQG HQGXUH FULWLTXH WKDW VD\V WKDW ³WKHLU ZRUN GRHVQ¶W GLVSOD\ WKHLU WUDXPD ZHOO HQRXJK ´ Ɣ 7KH 7H[WLOHV 'HSDUWPHQW GRHV QRW IDFLOLWDWH WKH QHFHVVDU\ FRQYHUVDWLRQV ZLWK $IUR 'LDVSRULF ZRUN DQG LQYDOLGDWHV LW FRQVWDQWO\ Ɣ 0DQ\ QRQ ZKLWH DOXPQL DQG VWXGHQWV DUH QRW FRPIRUWDEOH VSHDNLQJ XS  RU MXVW JDYH XS WU\LQJ Ɣ ³:KHQ , ZDV D VWXGHQW , RQO\ KHDUG DERXW WKH EXVLQHVV GHVLJQ LQGXVWU\ VLGH RI WH[WLOHV  µ7KHUH DUH VR PDQ\ DQWLFDSLWDOLVW EHDXWLIXO DVSHFWV RI WH[WLOHV  DQG VSLULWXDO SUDFWLFHV ZLWK WH[WLOHV  ,Q ULWXDO DQG LWV KLVWRU\  ,Q OLIH DQG DIWHUOLIH  :H DUH FRQQHFWHG LQ SDVVLQJ WKURXJK WKRVH KDOOV  , ORYH EHLQJ DQ DOXPQL LQ SDUW  %XW WKRVH KDOOV DUH ILOOHG ZLWK FRORQLDO JKRVWV WRR  WKDW DUH YHU\ KHDY\ IRU VRPH  WRR ´µ *LQD *UHJRULR 6HQLRU &ULWLF 5,6' 7H[WLOHV -LP 'UDLQ &ULWLF 5,6' 7H[WLOHV
Propositions from Printmaking Class ‘21 Statement of Intent: Given the lackluster departmental response, in essence shifting much blame to lack of funding and bureaucratic difficulties, we the undergraduate class of 2021 would like to work towards facilitating departmental longevity and remedy a number of issues that currently ail our institutional experience, specifically with the aim of prioritizing BIPOC voices and their involvement. The following contains a short list of potential initiatives, some of which require zero funding and simply the continued effort of faculty. However, others will take real time, work, and reallocation of funds. We must reflect on the ways in which we have harmed Black people and act by redistributing the resources, power, and security that privilege has rewarded us. We expect and require continued transparency and dialogue moving forward to ensure that we can make progress given the current circumstances and limitations set by the global pandemic. We cannot support the department’s response, which shifts culpability and involvement in systems that actively exclude Black, Indigenous, and people of color at this institution. Pointing to an overall institutional lack of BIPOC representation as an excuse for an all white, full-time printmaking faculty is an inadequate justification. Proposed Initiatives: 1. Hiring More BIPOC Professors: The lack of BIPOC faculty should not be reduced to a lack of local “qualified” BIPOC, which is likely untrue. If this were the case, the department should consider teaching technical skills to potential hirees, because it is evident that neither experience nor titles guarantee a good professor. For example, grad students with varying levels of experience are allowed to and often excel in teaching printmaking technique specific courses. Separate training should be offered to newly hired professors regardless of “qualifications” to unify the technical curriculum that is taught to the students in addition to SEI training. Most importantly, we should be actively seeking out and contacting Black printmakers rather than waiting for them to find and respond to job openings. 2. Introduction of Required Print Histories/Contexts Course: With the aim of addressing inequities in academic representation, much of our current print instruction is centered around a western canon that does not include the histories of BIPOC and Queer individuals, or recognize their contributions or advancements to the medium. Furthermore, the curriculum does not acknowledge the medium’s weaponization against enslaved Black people, involvement in a culture of incarceration, and importance as a tool for antislavery and protest. A lack of BIPOC faculty is not a valid justification for the omission of these significant facets of print history.Although our department has recently introduced the course “Print Cultures: Learning Print-History through Object-based Study” we do not feel this course outline speaks specifically enough to the values we wish to see from our education. While object-based focus is an approach to print history, it should not be the sole focus of our instruction, which should also look upon an inclusive, and holistic approach to history. Additionally, though this course was offered, it did not run during the spring semester, and we must stress its absolute necessity and requirement for majors. In reference to Andrew’s request for exemplary curricula, we have looked to other print programs and institutions (Yale, SUNY Purchase, Pratt, etc.) for ideas to recontextualize this course, and propose the following working list of suggestions and materials: ● Global Print Histories ○ encompassing different cultural and societal approaches to the medium as well as addressing it’s shifting role in society over time ○ acknowledging the prominence of a western canon in academia and consciously working to educate us on other nations’ histories within printed media ○ recognition of and education on individuals who furthered print processes ● Printmaking and Power Structures ○ encompassing race, class, gender, and so forth ○ printmaking as used by white enslavers to create posters also referred to as “fugitive slave posters” in pursuit of enslaved Black people who fled from their torturers, which developed into more popularized wanted posters and contributed to the normalization of a culture of incarceration ○ printmaking utilized for propaganda ○ printmaking as a catalyst for developing and disseminating iconographic symbols ● Printmaking and Activism ○ Emory Douglas: printmaker for Black Panther newspaper ○ Taller de Gráfica Popular (The People’s Print Workshop): revolutionary print collective founded by artists Leopoldo Méndez, Pablo O'Higgins, and Luis Arenal in Mexico in 1937 ○ printmaking as used by abolitionists to print and distribute posters, books, images, etc. ○ JustSeeds is a contemporary example of a print collective that supports grassroots struggles for justice through open source graphics, publications etc. ● Printmaking and Accessibility ○ recognizing accessibility issues within printmaking○ used to reach a larger audience but also can be inaccessible with regards to equipment and skill ● Other Materials ○ Pitseolak Ashoona and Kinngait Studios ○ Taller 99 3. Equipping Students & Faculty to Critically Reflect on Identity-based Work: The department must establish a close and continuous relationship with RISD’s Center for Social Equity & Inclusion or the Center for Reconciliation, a non-profit based in Providence, and require all faculty to attend public programs and workshops. Furthermore, all syllabi and course outlines should include resources and designated time within class discussion centered around educating students on how to properly and respectfully engage identity-based work. While the proposed Print Histories course can function in tandem to these actions, it is in no way a placeholder for the continued critical dialogues that will educate students and teachers alike. Too often that burden falls on uncomfortable and uncompensated students in the form of silence or traumatic exchanges disguised as “learning moments” during their own critiques. 4. Recontextualizing Shop Monitor Responsibilities: While the department has made space for out of major engagement, access is still limited to those who can afford studio lab fees. While we are aware of the financial necessity of these fees, we propose creating a system that prioritizes BIPOC and underprivileged students, and puts an end to structural gatekeeping. Rather than turning out-of-major students away, monitors should be directing them to 1:1 demos, sharing diy resources, providing a list of local printing presses, and so forth. Additionally, technician-monitor meetings should be actualized and more often to better train monitors and facilitate this outreach. 5. One on One Instruction: Create a system that allows for a thorough introduction to printmaking techniques for nonmajors or underclassmen, with priority given to BIPOC students, through individual demonstrations given by studio monitors or volunteering members of the department once a week. Additionally, we can emphasize resources through which students may learn DIY methodologies or continue their print explorations beyond studio hours/access. 6. Examination of the RISD Editions Program: As it stands, this program only benefits outside artists and the RISD Museum. Often, these editions are printed with the unpaid labour of Graduate or Senior students with the ruse of making professional connections. As it functions now, this program does not benefit students, and the resources we invest in this program could be better allocated elsewhere. If this program is to continue, it must focus on bolstering BIPOC and underprivileged voices in the print world. Local activist groups or groups committed to community enrichment could benefit from our labor andresources (i.e Amor Network, Black and Pink Providence, Providence Youth Student Movement). 7. Examination or Consolidation of Courses: A number of supposedly-advanced technique courses exist under the guise of teaching new technical skills to students when in actuality they are simply open studio projects. These courses should be eliminated, reformatted to more specifically instruct students, or replaced altogether to make space for courses taught by BIPOC. Additionally, Light To Ink should be consolidated into the respective introductory courses, while it’s degree requirement accreditation could be relieved by our proposed, required history course. 8. Introduction of Student-Teacher Review Panel: While students are given the opportunity to give feedback to their teachers at the end of a course, this feedback is often never addressed or tangibly shown to elicit change. We the students would like to personally hold our professors accountable for improving their teaching. This can be done in an anonymous manner with teachers reading feedback to the class or through open dialogues with faculty members. Our educational and personal concerns have continuously been ignored and they must be addressed.Initiatives That Address Issues of Engagement: To be clear, the following initiatives work to address issues of engagement/membership which the Printmaking Department has outlined as contributing factors to the lack of BIPOC within our major. Therefore, we recognize that these propositions ultimately serve our department and that there remains a need for larger initiatives that center BIPOC—initiatives that directly address and challenge the institutional frameworks that alienate BIPOC and protect those who harm them, Printmaking included. These proposed measures cannot serve as a long term stand in for the racial equity demands of the RISD Anti-Racism Coalition, because they are not solutions to the root of the problem. They should only be implemented in addition to the initiatives above, which more directly serve BIPOC, as soon as safety can be guaranteed given that we are currently facing a global pandemic. While we do not wish to justify the reasoning that the majority white student population is reflected in the Printmaking department by no fault of its own, we propose these initiatives with the intention of proving how easy some of these problems can be to address. 1. Student Involvement in Departmental Processes: Students are left out of crucial departmental processes that affect them the most. Opportunities for transparency and communication can be established through student representation alongside faculty at department meetings, in the hiring process, and in the selection of guest critics or speakers. 2. Better Outreach & Utilization of Department Social Media: We would like to emphasize the necessity of social media as a legitimate tool for broadcasting, recruiting, and supporting the efforts of students and the print world. Social Media accounts should be better implemented to spotlight current student work, as well as alumni and their accomplishments. Additionally they should be used to share information on upcoming events, artist talks/lectures. This responsibility can easily be and should be shared among students and faculty. 3. Reintroduction of the Benson Hall Gallery: The Benson Hall Gallery and the student-run exhibitions it facilitated are a vital part of the printmaking education, which has much to do with curation and presentation. If Printmaking wishes to laud the achievements of its alumni who pursue curation, it must acknowledge the role a gallery space has played in laying that foundation. Given our knowledge of Benson’s space, we believe at least half of the Tech Lab could be reformatted to run as a small, student gallery space. Additionally, the printmaking department should consider moving the plotter and laser cutter to senior studio spaces.4. Junior/Senior Open Studios and Open Critiques: Regularly advertise open studios and critiques to better inform freshmen and sophomores of the types of work made in the department and familiarize them with printmaking critique spaces and focuses. Additionally, we would like to encourage the reintroduction of Sophomore and Junior reviews as well as Shows. 5. Establishment of Cross-Year Partnerships/Mentorships: Given the open and cross disciplinary approach to studio work our major and building facilitates, we would like to establish more concrete interactions between students within the Printmaking department. The Sophomore experience is primarily a technical introduction to printmaking, and these students need to be exposed to the experimental and exploratory approach upperclassmen embody. This can be done through cross-year critiques, print exchanges, or partner/mentorship practices. 6. Inclusion of Teaching Assistants for Graduate-Run Wintersession Courses: Wintersession courses play a fundamental role in establishing freshman and out of major connections with the printmaking department. If these courses are run by unengaged graduate students, our enrollment directly suffers. We propose that all Graduate students teaching Wintersession courses opt for a junior/senior Teaching Assistant to ensure shop protocol is followed and that students taking these courses feel well equipped, instructed, and acknowledged. Acknowledgements: While this list of potential initiatives encompasses an immediate approach to restructuring departmental approaches, we recognize the institutional failures that make serious change and redistribution of equity to BIPOC difficult, specifically RISD’s recent stance on halting hiring processes, their pattern of depriving BIPOC of fair contracts and legitimate positions of leadership, and tokenizing them. In order to move forward as a department, we must also demand the continuing support and uplifting of BIPOC voices in academia. When it comes time to hire new faculty members, both part-time and full, the Printmaking Department must acknowledge its historic whiteness and nepotism, and engage student feedback when hiring instructors. These propositions were drafted by the Printmaking Undergraduate Class of 2021.Copy of Email to Department: Subject: ‘21 BFA Printmaking Departmental Propositions Dear RISD Printmaking Faculty and Students, As members of this institution, and both witnesses and victims to its violence, the Printmaking Class of 2021 recognizes our complacency in waiting to break our silence. We need to be more alert and proactive so that Black, Indigenous, and non-Black people of color, who are already vulnerable to systemic oppression, aren’t forced to speak out at their own risk. We are grateful for the students advocating for BIPOC through the RISD & Race Forum, RISD Anti-Racism Coalition, BlackAtRisd, and all other organizations challenging institutional racism. We will continue to support their work and demand transparency and action from our specific department in addition to RISD as a whole. Attached is our group statement which proposes a number of solutions, both short term and long term, with the intention of supporting our BIPOC faculty and students as well as addressing departmental ailments. Statement of Intent: Given the lackluster departmental response, in essence shifting much blame to lack of funding and bureaucratic difficulties, we, the undergraduate Class of 2021, would like to work towards facilitating departmental longevity and remedy a number of issues that currently ail our institutional experience, specifically with the aim of prioritizing BIPOC voices and their involvement. The following contains a short list of potential initiatives, some of which require zero funding and simply the continued effort of faculty. However, others will take real time, work, and reallocation of funds. We must reflect on the ways in which we have harmed Black people and act by redistributing the resources, power, and security that privilege has rewarded us. We expect and require continued transparency and dialogue moving forward to ensure that we can make progress given the current circumstances and limitations set by the global pandemic. We cannot support the department’s response, which shifts culpability and involvement in systems that actively exclude Black, Indigenous, and people of color at this institution. Pointing to an overall institutional lack of BIPOC representation as an excuse for an all white, full-time printmaking faculty is an inadequate justification. Signed, Class of 2021 BFA Printmaking
2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Petition details Comments UpdatesNotre Dame Black Alumni Appeal https://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 1/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org 11,785 have signed. Let’s get to 15,000! Victoria Perdomo signed 1 day ago Christy Teufel signed 5 days agohttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 2/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Chioma Amuzie started this petition to Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C and 4 others This is the experience of a Black student at the University of Notre Dame: “During a freshman Moreau class, a white student told me, in front of our peers, I was only accepted into Notre Dame because I am Black. The Moreau leader proceeded to cut me off when I tried to explain why that thinking is racist.” "On move in day of my freshman year, my white roommate's father had a very unsettling look on his face when he first saw me. When I was organizing the room, he avoided talking to me and coming anywhere near me. A few minutes later I heard him say to my roommate, 'I don't want your beds anywhere close to each other.'" “When I was a freshman, I accidentally missed a section meeting. The moment my RA saw me, she raced down the hall and yelled in my face. She then reported me to my rector. Later that week, I heard my white counterparts had not only missed that same meeting, but other ones in the past. They received no reprimanding. ” "During my junior year, a professor invited Charles Murray, the author of the Bell Curve which asserts Black and Latino genetics are intellectually inferior, to speak on campus for “scholarly discussion.” On the day of his campus lecture, there were police surrounding McKenna Hall to blockade student entrance in the building. I had to yell at an officer to take his hands off a Black peaceful protestor. Then, I was denied access into a building where I had class, although my white classmates were permitted to enter. I was late to class after arguing with ushers to let me in, showing my student ID, pulling up my student schedule, and then emailing my professor who had to come downstairs and demand I be let in." "These experiences worsen especially on game days when some visitors are a bit more explicit about their feelings toward Black people. I've seen mothers quickly grasp their children when I walk by them. I get stares. While riding my bike to see my friends, some children saw me and started showing mehttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 3/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org monkey impressions. On another game day, while walking, this guy just mumbled the word "frog" when he passed me. When I tried to bring this up to my Rector or advisor, they ignored it and claimed that I was just being irrational." "One night after a football game, my friend and I were sitting in my car in D lot. NDPD stopped by and asked if we were students. They then asked us what we were doing. The officer reported it and said he thought we were having sex under a blanket. There was no blanket in my car." "When I was moving in, a girl and her parents asked if they could help. I told them that it was fine because my dad and uncle were just parking the car and would be back to help. She looked at me with this surprised look and said “Your dad?!!!” I was shocked. I overheard them later saying they couldn’t believe that my dad was in my life." “A student running for hall president put up posters of himself holding neckties of different colors with the quote, “Who says Notre Dame has a diversity problem?” “My freshman year, my friend stayed over in my room after getting back from a party very late. Neither of us wanted to walk back to our dorms alone. My white roommate reported me. Both myself and my friend had a meeting with my rector and we were sanctioned. Several weeks later, I entered my room late at night and my roommate was laying in her bed naked with her boyfriend. I told my RA. No one in the hall did anything.” “One of my classmates sent a Snapchat to our class group chat with the caption “dumb niggers.” The silence of my peers in the group chat, who either tried to dismiss it was the more traumatic part.” “I’ve been asked to step out of my car twice. Once near the gate near the main entrance and another time by the Stepan Center entrance. Not only asked to step out of my car, but I was searched. I not only had an ND license plate and a permit on my windshield both times, but I also showed my student ID.” “During my senior year, the n-word and ‘Blacks should be picking cotton’ was written throughout multiple residence halls and on the boards outside of black students’ rooms.” “During my freshman year Moreau class, a tall white male stood up and aggressively yelled at me. He constantly referred to me as ‘you people.’ The professor said nothing to him, but when I tried to respond I was told to calm down.” Introduction These excerpts represent only a few moments of racism that many Black, Notre Dame students have faced on campus. More often than not, the story ends with “and nothing happened.” Too often, the university remains silent on issues facing members of her community. When choosing to attend the nation’s premier Catholic institution, we expected to feel the spirit of Christ throughout campus; we expected to encounter the value and dignity for the human life that Notre Dame told us about in her brochures and in our tours. We expected that Father Sorin’s vision for the university to be, “one of the most powerful means of doing good in this country,” would translate to campus interactions. For many of us, these expectations were not met. Instead, throughout the journey of obtaining our prestigioushttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 4/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Notre Dame degree, we were left to deal with unchecked and unacknowledged racism that ran rampant throughout the Notre Dame community. Our aggressors were not reprimanded and the institution that we all wished to call our “home under the dome” made us feel like mere guests– or, in some cases, strangers. While we appreciate the public statements, prayers and peace walks, we expect substantive change that will positively impact the culture and experience for Black students, faculty and staff. We expect a new level of accountability - one of the five values even our own faculty and staff are asked to uphold and live daily. By following the expectations listed below, we expect Notre Dame will evolve into an environment where Black students, faculty, and staff will feel comfortable attending and working for. Eventually, we expect the diversity of staff in leadership to grow. We expect to see the number of full time Black faculty increase. We expect to see the enrollment of Black students increase. In the case where there is no immediate action, we expect to go down another route. Our weariness with the Black, Notre Dame experience drives us to get our degree and turn our backs to our alma mater; but our faith and passion for justice calls us to continuously fight for the community that remains and the truly inclusive and anti-racist Notre Dame that we hope to see. We are tired of Notre Dame’s silence and lack of empathy. It is for these reasons that we have chosen to fully divest from Notre Dame. We call on all Notre Dame alumni, from all races, that share our same hope of genuine inclusivity to join us in this divestment. This is a commitment to neither engage in alumni association events/activities nor donate to the University of Notre Dame until the necessary actions to foster an anti-racist, impartial, and inclusive environment have been taken. In addition, the Black Alumni will cease recruitment support, including, but not limited to, future decisions to not send our children and family to the University until action is identified. Our expectation is for senior officials to create a task force of current students, alumni, faculty, and staff to address these expectations within seven days. Town Hall Meeting: In order to create an open line of communication, we expect Executive Vice President Shannon B. Cullinan, President John Jenkins, and Provost Marie Lynn Miranda to host a virtual town hall meeting before school resumes in the fall. In this meeting, current students, alumni, faculty and staff will be invited to call in and express their grievances directly to the leaders of the University. For too long, senior leadership has lacked an ear to the campus climate and has avoided sitting in front of the faces it has consistently let down. Senior leadership should be available to hear from the very parts of the university that make it go. Mandatory Coursework: The first expectation that we have is for a Black History and Anti-Racism class to be created and mandated for all students at the university. There is clear unfamiliarity and ignorance of cultural differences among students, faculty, and staff, which contributes heavily to the racism that is experienced by Black students. The purpose of the course is to combat racism with formal discussion and education on different cultures. In order for this goal to be met, instructors of these courses will also be required to go through cultural competency training to familiarize themselves with the topics and learn how to facilitate open conversations about cultural differences between students. We propose for the course to be set up similarly to the Moreau course that first-year students are required to take. Anhttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 5/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org ideal course would discuss the definition of racism and its explicit/implicit forms, as well as covering cultural backgrounds on groups that have faced substantial racism in this country (e.g. African Americans, Native Americans, Latin Americans, Irish, Italian, Chinese, Japanese, etc.). We request that this class be activated and mandated by Fall of 2022 for all incoming freshmen from that year forward. To decide on the curriculum and instructor training of this course, our suggestion is for representatives of affinity departments at the university to collaborate on the material. Accountability Board: A second expectation is the creation of an accountability board made up of a group of 15 faculty and staff members appointed each year by the executive boards of the historically Black organizations on campus, including but not limited to, Shades of Ebony, the Black Student Association, and Wabruda. This appointed board will report to Audit & Advisory Services, in turn reporting to the Board of Trustees. The goal for this group will be to ensure that a racially inclusive and anti-racist environment for students is being upheld. The board will receive training from the aforementioned anti-racism class at the beginning of each semester. Members of the board will be responsible for determining whether a reported act of racial insensitivity has violated the purpose of creating an anti-racist environment. Various groups can be sent to the accountability board after being reported for racial insensitivity including students, hall staff, St. Liam’s staff, and the NDPD. By the start of the fall semester of 2022, we expect this board to be organized and ready to review cases. Notre Dame’s Spirit of Inclusion policy states, “We welcome all people, regardless of color, gender, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, social or economic class, and nationality, for example, precisely because of Christ’s calling to treat others as we desire to be treated... We consciously create an environment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish.” Our experience has been far from that. Notre Dame has failed to protect its Black students, faculty, and staff on numerous occasions. To prevent any future instances of such, we expect swift and severe reprimanding of students, faculty, and staff who commit discriminatory and/or racist actions. We request the following definitions of discrimination and racism be adopted by policy and updated in du Lac: Discrimination: The unjust or prejudicial treatment of different categories of people or things especially on the grounds of race, age, or sex. Racism: The prejudice, discrimination, or antagonism directed against someone of a different race. We would like to see a two strike system put into place. Upon ruling of a student's second discriminatory and/or racist incident from the accountability board, they would face disciplinary action such as probation or expulsion. As the premier Catholic institution in the world, Notre Dame has a responsibility and opportunity to be an example for anti-racism. We look to implement this policy at the same time as the inception of the accountability board, spring semester 2021. Residence Life Welcome Weekendhttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 6/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org In order to create a welcoming, inclusive environment within dorms, there should be significant improvement in regards to the facilitation of Welcome Weekend. Welcome Weekend sets the tone for the future of residents on campus. While Welcome Weekend focuses on fully immersing first-year students into the Notre Dame experience, we want to be explicit about the consequences of discriminatory and racist actions in the Notre Dame community. Right now, there is a lack of in-depth discussion on race and racism amongst Welcome Weekend staff. By prioritizing cultural competency during Welcome Weekend, we not only expect anti-racism round table discussions to be part of the Welcome Weekend’s staff on-boarding, but we also expect a mandatory discussion of rules in dorms built around maintaining an environment for cultural competency. Welcome Weekend makes sure to emphasize the gravity of sexual assault prevention and the definition of consent. The same attention should be prescribed to cultural competency and racial inclusivity. The creation, addressing, and upholding of these rules for maintaining a culturally competent dorm environment will be overseen by the accountability board. By addressing the role and responsibility of the accountability board during Welcome Weekend to incoming freshmen, we hope to provide early education on cultural sensitivity, which will be reinforced in the anti-racism class. We believe this degree of focus on cultural competency during Welcome Weekend will be a catalyst to the Notre Dame community standing united in being an anti-racist institution year to year. By the fall semester of 2021, we expect this update to take place. Hall Staff To improve the climate of residence life, hall staff should have to update diversity training to require conversations on racism and the consequences for allowing it to go unreported or engaging in said racism. This will include Rectors, Resident Assistants, and Assistant Rectors. Currently, Resident Assistants attend a brief diversity and inclusion seminar along with some situational training that is not specifically focused on cultural awareness or racism. We want to see racial and cultural education emphasized during Rector, RA, and AR training to provide a solid foundation for how to prevent and respond to racist instances within the dorm. Our recommendation is to collaborate with the student Diversity Council to create an adequate curriculum to present to Hall Staff. Rectors, RAs, and ARs will have to face the accountability board for any reported violations and will have a two strike rule before losing their position and benefits of the role. By the fall semester of 2021, we expect this update to take place. Campus Healthcare COVID-19 has revitalized the conversation about health disparities in underserved communities. Several studies, such as that from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health (Laveist & Nuru-Jeter 2002)1, have found that patients who are of the same race as their provider report more satisfaction. Implicit bias in health care serves as the foundation for poor health outcomes, particularly in the Black community. It’s worth noting that within the Black community, Black women experience these traumatic and unsettling experiences with health care providers at an alarmingly higher rate than their peers. Our expectation moving forward is that the University will make incremental improvements in the hiring of racially diverse health care providers. We would like to see Black health care providers make up 20% of St. Liam’s staff by 2022. In addition to expecting change in the racial diversity within the St. Liams staff, we expect at the beginning of each semester that the entire staff preview the aforementioned Blackhttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 7/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org History/Anti-Racism course to better serve and provide for its heterogeneous student body. We also expect that anyone who visits St. Liam’s will be able to fill out an evaluation at the end of each appointment. This evaluation, composed of questions about comfort, respect, and cultural competency, will provide incentive for St. Liam’s staff to maintain an overall standard of performance. If any red flags come up, it will be reviewable by the accountability board. By mandating that the St. Liam’s staff becomes more culturally competent in dealing with its students, we expect fewer instances of neglect amongst Black students. If Black students experience neglect by St. Liam’s, the expectation is that the accountability board will oversee alleged cases of misconduct. In the instant that one St. Liam’s staff member has multiple complaints regarding their experience, we are requesting removal of the health care provider(s) in question from the St. Liam’s staff. Campus Policing History continues to remind us that abuse of police power continues to disproportionately impact Black people. We demand better conduct amongst the Notre Dame Police Department when interacting with Black students at Notre Dame. There are several actions that can be taken to meet expectations. Notre Dame police must enroll in bi-annual cultural competency courses like other members of the Notre Dame community are expected to, as this will better guide them in their conduct with Black students. We expect that they are also mandated to take the Black History/Anti-Racism course. Far too often there are instances of police officers racially profiling Black students and questioning their status as a Notre Dame student, while their white peers roam campus freely. Transparency is also an issue between law enforcement and Black students. This conduct can be improved by mandating that officers wear body cameras and have large print badge numbers on their badges and/or uniforms. This allows any Black student to feel confident that officers will not be exempt from reprimanding if there is evidence of their misconduct on campus. If Black students experience discrimination by NDPD, the expectation is that the accountability board will oversee alleged cases of misconduct. In the instant that an NDPD officer has multiple complaints regarding their experience, we are requesting removal of these officers from the NDPD staff. Closing The crimes against Black people did not start today. On every level, institutionalized racism has guaranteed for centuries that Black people remain at the bottom of society. Recently, the tragic murders of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and others have caused a seismic shift. At this time, individuals, organizations, and parts of the government are scrambling to atone for the marginalization of Black people. At the same time, Black people are using their voices and advocating in new ways without fear of retaliation because for the first time, the nation as a whole is listening and watching. The debate these days is, “Which side of history will you end up on?” If Notre Dame believes it, “...seeks to cultivate... a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice, and oppression that burden the lives of so many,” is that not a commitment to be on the right side? In Notre Dame, Black Alumnihttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 8/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Laveist TA, Nuru-Jeter A. Is doctor-patient race concordance associated with greater satisfaction with care?. J Health Soc Behav. 2002;43(3):296‐306. Start a petition of your own Start a petition of your own This petition starter stood up and took action. Will you do the same? Start a petition Updates 8 months ago 10,000 supporters 8 months ago Chioma Amuzie started this petition Reasons for signinghttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 9/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Natalie Thomas·8 months ago I’m signing because as a black Notre Dame alum, I have certainly experienced and witnessed racism on campus in both blatant and discrete manners. Yet, the administration has never sufficiently fulfilled or addressed the pain and grievances of their black students. Father Jenkins never publicly condemned any racial bigotry that occurred o… Read more 31· Reporthttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 10/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Kylie VanArsdale·8 months ago I am signing because Notre Dame deliberately silences black voices demanding change on campus. No amount of prayers and listening sessions will ever be enough to make real change. 27· Report View all reasons for signing Report a policy violation Complete your signature First name Last name Email Malibu, 90265 United States Display my name and comment on this petition Sign this petition By signing, you accept Change.org’s Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, and agree to receive occasional emails about campaigns on Change.org. You can unsubscribe at any time. Sign this petition Petitions promoted by other Change.org users Promoted by 44 supportershttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 11/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Save our Regina "Queen city" airport tower for international flights! This means people in Regina and others in surrounding communities that flew … Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 29 supporters Support Falun Gong To End The Brutal Persecution of 21 Years Falun Gong, also commonly known as Falun Dafa, is an ancient Chinese spiritual … Read morehttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 12/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Sign the petition Promoted by 14 supporters Save Hunting & Fishing in New Mexico! SAVE HUNTING AND FISHING IN NEW MEXICO! New Mexico SB312 is a poorly camouflaged attempt to eliminate hunting and fis… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 73 supportershttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 13/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Remove Chris Harrison from the Bachelor Franchise Chris Harrison has a history of misogyny and racist behavior and racist-sympathizing behavior. Extra interview On Februa… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 5 supporters Texas Legislation to Nullify Biden's Executive Ordershttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 14/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org I, as an American citizen and a citizen of the State of Texas, adamantly agree with South Dakota's legislation seeking to nullif… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 24 supporters Get the pride spread in the Rogers yearbook Our goal is to get our pride spread accepted into our yearbook, it’s time for LGBTQ+ students to be given a platform and feel accept… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 78 supportershttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 15/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Utah Governor Cox VETO permitless carry bill H.B. 60 Utahns do not support the prospect of having more untrained, unsafe concealed gun carrier in our communities. The Concealed C… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 30 supporters Make Twin Falls Idaho a Second Amendment Sanctuary Cityhttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 16/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org This petition is to be submitted to the Twin Falls City Council as to show support to … Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 14 supporters President Biden and Leaders of World Governments: Sign the Moon Treaty! For text of the Model Implementation Agreement and related papers and articles, plea… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 193 supportershttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 17/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Reopen Los Angeles Schools for In-Person Instruction THIS SEMESTER. Los Angeles (and LAUSD in particular) must safely reopen in-person classes and … Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 92 supportershttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 18/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org First Partner Newsom: Let Us Play Water Polo Dear First Partner Newsom: California has subjected youth athletes to a risk system designed for the economy. Its health… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 79 supporters PRESIDENT BIDEN: Award USCP Officer Eugene Goodman The Medal of Freedom… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 16 supportershttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 19/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Humanitarian Visa for Parents of Jorge Emmanuel Castillo SCROLL DOWN FOR ENGLISH VERSION... Jorge Emmanuel es un joven cristiano cubano de 24 años que reside en Miami. Reciente… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 116 supportershttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 20/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org !! Maintain Safe Access to West Matheson Hammock Park for Everyone !! To all Miami-Dade residents – you pay for this park, don’t let the Parks Departmen… Read more Sign the petition Promoted by 11 supporters Demand for Removal of Members from PSC Who Failed to Honor their Oath of Office… Read more Sign the petition CO M PA N Y About CO M M U N ITY Bloghttps://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 21/22 2/11/2021 Petition · Notre Dame Black Alumni Appeal · Change.org Impact Careers Team S U PPORT Help Guides Privacy Policies Cookies English (United States) © 2021, Change.org, PBC Certified B Corporation Press CON N ECT Twitter Facebook This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.https://www.change.org/p/rev-john-i-jenkins-c-s-c-notre-dame-black-alumni-appeal 22/22 
Unpacking Diversity Recommendations for Community Change at CEOAS - June 26, 2020

6. We request that CEOAS diversify seminars by requiring disciplines to invite and cover
honoraria of at least one speaker per year from historically marginalized communities,
and/or speakers whose work impacts those communities.

0 For example, discussions of how climate change impacts disproportionately poor

communities and Communities of Color, as well as eco-racism, are lacking from the core
curriculum in CEOAS.

0 Examples from prior CEOAS seminars include:

A. Dr. Laura Pulido (University of Oregon; Unpacking Diversity invited keynote
speaker)

B. Dr. Kenneth Ridgway (Purdue University; George Moore and Thomas Condon
lectures)

C. Kassandra Rippee (Coquille Nation; for G&G seminars).

7. We request the creation of an anti-racist and anti-discriminatory code of conduct with
actionable repercussions for violations that all members of the College are required to
sign and include and discuss as part of standard operations. In doing so, college
leadership should be responsible for:

o Communicating and coordinating discussions outlining what is expected of members of
the department in the code of conduct at faculty and College meetings.

0 Taking all necessary measures to support victims of and protect members of the college
from racist and discriminatory incidents including, but not limited to, preparing
emergency protocol for situations in which members of Communities of Color may be in
danger due to racist environments in the field or elsewhere, clear and transparent
responses to racially motivated incidents, protection from retaliation for individual(s)
reporting a bias incident or whistleblowing.

o A preprint of an article "Ten simple rules for building an anti-racist lab" was published by
geoscientists Bala Chaudhary and Asmeret Berhe, accessed here:

https://ecoevorxiv.org/4a9p8i. This provides a starting point for discussions for Pls about
anti-racist codes of conduct.


To sign your name onto the statement, please fill out this form: . Please do not request edit access.In light of the recent murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Tony McDade, and countless others as a result of systemic racism and violence against the Black community,  at UT Austin have made statements calling for donations and action against racism on campus. A  created by UT students with 13,000 signatures (and counting) calls on the University to acknowledge its racist history. The UT student community has come together to identify 8 tangible action items that the University must take to condemn racial violence and support Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) communities on UT’s campus.As Interim President Jay Hartzell publicly stated in his first email to the student body, “The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a ‘university of the first class.’ Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing”. UT must now act on this public commitment by taking an active role and listening to students. BIPOC student leaders should be at the forefront of these conversations.We call for the University of Texas at Austin to 1) divest from the Austin Police Department and the University of Texas Police Department, 2) implement a test-optional undergraduate and graduate admissions policy, 3) incorporate land acknowledgments in all UT programming, 4) use a multi-faceted approach to incorporate conversations on race and systemic racism in the United States 5) rename Robert Lee Moore Hall, Painter Hall, Littlefield Hall, Littlefield Patio Cafe, Littlefield Fountain, Belo Center for New Media, James Hogg Auditorium, and remove the James Hogg Statue to stop honoring people who perpetuated racism on this campus, 6) discontinue the use of “The Eyes of Texas” at all UT related events, 7) adopt equitable and inclusive practices in the recruitment, selection, and promotion of UT faculty, and 8) institutionalize and fund a campus climate survey.Divestment from APD and UTPDPolice brutality continues to plague this nation, as seen in the murder of George Floyd and many Black individuals, as well as in the death of Mike Ramos, who lost his life at the hands of the Austin Police Department (APD). In the protests following, many more cases of police violence were documented, including APD having shot both a pregnant woman in the stomach and a 16-year-old in the head. After eight hours of the public telling Austin City Council about police brutality and their wishes to defund APD, the council voted and approved a grant of $430,685 to APD. It has become glaringly clear that law enforcement consistently disregards the welfare and rights of people of color, especially the Black community. UTPD also remains complicit in upholding actions of white supremacy and failing to protect UT students against actors of violence, as seen in their repeated UTPD text alerts that racially profile men of color. Therefore, we clearly demand the immediate removal of APD and UTPD officers from UT's campus and student-centered neighborhoods, as well as their removal in response to mental health crises and survivor support, as this can often be traumatizing. We demand the insurance of student safety through methods other than UTPD policing (through fund reallocations outlined in 1b), as policing often endangers and intimidates Black students and students of color.There is precedent to divesting from city police departments as seen in University of Minnesota ending contracts with the Minneapolis Police Department after the death of George Floyd. Additionally, Minneapolis City Council members committed to disband the Minneapolis Police Department and instead invest in community-led public safety, with Minneapolis City Council President Lisa Bender stating that “efforts at incremental reform have failed.” The University of Texas has already committed to implementing restorative justice policy, which is in line with the foundation of divestment from all forms of police. We call for this foundation to be expanded upon through reallocation of all UTPD funding to investments in mental health service providers, social workers, survivor advocates, food security resources (UT Outpost), housing displacement prevention, public health initiatives, and all other forms of nonviolent and community-led student safety methods.Adopt a Test-Optional Admission PolicyUT has had a long and fraught history with the use of standardized tests in undergraduate admissions. In fact, this practice only began during the integration of the University as a means to exclude Black students from admission. Last year, the University acknowledged that “the ugly desire to keep out African American students was a major driver of … UT’s decision in the 1950s to begin testing applicants for admission”. Even now, the requirement of standardized test scores for both undergraduate and graduate admissions disproportionately harms underrepresented minorities.The UT Automatic Admissions rule is hailed by administrative officials as a form of a test-optional policy for undergraduates. It is true that for students who qualify for automatic admission, their test scores are not considered as a factor in determining their admission to the university as a whole. Their test scores are still utilized as a factor in determining a student’s admission to their desired major(s) and program(s). A university report shows that after the adoption of this policy, ethnic/racial diversity at UT increased along with average freshman GPA. The same report states that high school class rank is a better predictor of college success than test scores, particularly amongst African American and Latinx students. This study shows that any form of a test-optional admissions policy is directly beneficial to achieving diverse admissions. As we gain a greater understanding of the systemic inequities that our Black and Latinx students face, it is important to expand any current test-optional admissions. The current system must be expanded as it still does not eliminate test scores from admissions decisions for all students or from decisions regarding a student’s admission to their desired major or program(s).As more peer institutions, most recently the University of California System, implement test-optional admissions policies, there is now more information available on the impact of these policies in the current educational climate. A study published by the National Association for College Admissions Counseling (NACAC) showed that test-optional policies lead to greater application and enrollment rates, particularly among traditionally underrepresented minorities (URM) and low socioeconomic status (SES) individuals. Furthermore, there were no significant differences in first-year GPA, cumulative GPA, or graduation rates among students who submitted test scores versus those who did not. Overall, both the SAT13 and GRE correlates more strongly with family affluence than with any predictor of academic success. Therefore, we call for the university to eliminate the requirement of standardized test scores for admissions, including admission to a student’s desired major(s) and program(s).Please reference our thorough statement regarding test-optional admissions policies .Incorporate land acknowledgements in all UT programmingThe University of Texas at Austin does not own the land it is on; UT is on Indigenous territory. As such, we demand that all UT events and programming (commencement, rallies, etc) begin with land acknowledgements to honor the Indigenous Peoples who have been living on the land for centuries, to highlight the long-standing history that has brought individuals to this land, and to understand and consciously think about one’s place within that history. The Native American community at UT should be directly involved in the formation of UT’s official shared land acknowledgement. Many UT spaces already practice land acknowledgements such as the Multicultural Engagement Center, the Gender and Sexuality Center, and the University Writing Center. Use a multi-faceted approach to incorporate conversations on race, systemic racism through 360 connections, orientation, introductory classes, flags, and a required module360 connections and orientation: First-year students are encouraged by the Student Success Initiative office to enroll into a 360 Connection. During orientation students learn about 360 Connections which include but are not limited to First-Year Interest Groups (FIGs), Transfer Interest Groups (TRiGs), honor societies, success programs, and LEAP. Therefore, we ask that these groups that have the authority to mandate and incorporate into their curriculum conversation about race and the racist history at UT. Furthermore, New Student Services – the department that coordinates UT Orientation – should incorporate these conversations and topics into their campus tours as a way for incoming students to acknowledge the history of this campus.Redefining the CD flag: To actively encourage students to be anti-racist and acknowledge our country’s racist history, the University of Texas should redefine the CD flag requirement to address race, systemic racism, and oppression in the U.S. and incorporate these themes into core classes.All undergraduate students at UT must fulfill this requirement in order to graduate. To fulfill the requirement students must receive a C or higher in a designated UT class that focuses on how the United States has disproportionately affected certain communities due to race. This requirement serves to address the themes and issues in The United States that are relevant to understanding race, systematic racism, and oppression. Classes that would be included in the requirement would be classes framed around one of the following groups of people; African Americans, Indigenous Peoples in the United States, Asian Americans, and Latino/a Americans. Currently, the classes that carry a Cultural Diversity flag are too broad and too expansive. Instead, only classes that give students a space to learn about racial equality, equity, and social justice should count for the CD requirement. We believe by changing the CD requirement, students would be encouraged to use critical thinking and reflection and dialogue on these issues.Required module: The history of the University of Texas at Austin is grounded in racism - this much is evident from Dr. Edmund Gordon’s Racial Geography Tour. To combat this history, UT must create a required module for incoming students detailing the racist background of the university’s origins as a way to educate the student body and acknowledge its historical failure to treat all students with dignity and respect. Similar to AlcoholEdu and the Sexual Assault Prevention for Undergraduates (SAPU) module, this new module would be required to view their grades.This module should encompass elements of UT’s history as far back as its confederate origins, the civil rights era injustices such as Sweatt v. Painter (1950), and recent events like Fisher v. University of Texas (2016) and the long-overdue removal of confederate memorials. Mandating the viewing of Dr. Gordon’s Racial Geography Tour could be an effective aspect of this module.Rename Robert Lee Moore Hall, Painter Hall, Littlefield Hall, Littlefield Patio Cafe, Littlefield Fountain, Belo Center for New Media, James Hogg Auditorium, and remove the James Hogg Statue.UT must take tangible steps to condemn racial violence and support Black communities on UT’s campus. Renaming Robert Lee Moore Hall and Painter Hall are one small way in which UT can stop honoring people who perpetuated racism on this campus. Other universities including the University of Alabama have also appointed committees to study building names on their campus with an eye towards renamings.Robert Lee Moore Hall (RLM) houses the physics, math, and astronomy (PMA) departments. Robert Lee Moore was a Mathematics faculty member  at UT (1920 -1969) and has a well documented history of racism towards Black students, even going so far as to refuse to teach Black students solely based on their race . The continued inaction on renaming the building signals a lack of commitment to equity to current and prospective UT students, especially those who identify as Black. As seen in GR 17(F)6, JR 1710, JR 18(S)3 and SR 1904, there is continued and widespread student support for the promotion of a culture of inclusivity on campus and the renaming of Robert Lee Moore Hall (RLM) as led by the People for PMA movement.Renaming Painter Hall (PAI) is another tangible step that UT can take to stop honoring people who perpetuated racism and refused to admit Black students to this campus. Theophilus Shickel Painter served as Acting President for UT Austin from 1944 to 1946. At the time, Heman Marion Sweatt applied to UT’s Law School and according to Painter was “duly qualified for admission into the Law School at the University of Texas, save and except for the fact that he is a negro.” In a letter to the Attorney General, Painter writes “The Registrar of the University declined to accept the application of Mr. Sweatt and refused to register him as a student. This action on the part of the Registrar was done with my consent and approval as Acting President of The University of Texas at Austin.” This led in the Supreme Court Case Sweatt v. Painter which successfully challenged the “separate but equal” clause, resulting in the enrollment of the first Black students at UT in 1950. However, it has been well-documented that Painter made multiple attempts to keep UT segregated and we should not continue to honor his racist beliefs.Belo Center for New Media (BMC) houses the School of Journalism, the Stan Richards School of Advertising and Public Relations, and the college’s Dean’s Office. BMC is named after Alfred Horatio Belo, who was a Confederate Army officer and commanded the 55th North Carolina Infantry Regiment. For his direct contributions as a Confederate in the Civil War, Belo should not continue to be honored.Hogg Auditorium hosts several lectures and events throughout the year and both the auditorium and James Hogg Statue honor James Stephen Hogg. As governor, James S Hogg signed the first Jim Crow bills into law in 1891, spurring on an era of segregation, racist rhetoric and hate crimes. Hogg’s racist beliefs should not continue to be honored.Littlefield Hall, Littlefield Fountain, and Littlefield Patio Cafe, named after George W. Littlefield and his wife Alice Payne Tillar Littlefield. Despite being one of the largest benefactors of the University of Texas at Austin, George W. Littlefield is a known racist whose pro-slavery and anti-Black beliefs should not continue to be commemorated at our University. G.W. Littlefield built his wealth on the stolen land of Indigenous groups and slave labor. Furthermore George W. Littlefield chose to commemorate the Confederate Army and the “Lost Cause” by financially supporting and commissioning memorials for Confederate Generals. At the time, UT signed an agreement with Littlefield which required the University to promote the “Southern perspective of American history”, resulting in a lawsuit in 2017 after the University removed the confederate statutes. Though we recognize that G.W. Littlefield’s contributions to the formation of the University of Texas at Austin, we urge the University to stop glorifying an individual whose discriminatory beliefs and actions created an unwelcoming and inequitable campus climate.Renaming Robert Lee Moore Hall, Painter Hall, James Hogg Auditorium, memorials after George Littlefield, and removing the James Hogg Statue has widespread student support and petitions have gathered more than 12,000 signatures thus far.It is now more important than ever for UT Administration to tangibly act on their stated commitment to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion through decisively renaming these two buildings and unequivocally condemning Robert Lee Moore, T.S. Painter, James Hogg, and George Littlefield's racist beliefs.Discontinue any use of “The Eyes of Texas” at all UT related events, and compose a new official school spirit song with the inclusion of BIPOC composers and musicians.23“The Eyes of Texas” was originally debuted as a song at a minstrel show where the performers were in Blackface, or theatrical makeup used by non-Black performers to portray caricatures of Black individuals. Endorsing “The Eyes of Texas” as the official school song with its explicit, anti-Black origin directly harms the Black community. As such, we call for discontinuing “The Eyes of Texas” in all UT programming, including but not limited to sporting events, orientation, commencement ceremonies, and any on campus activities, and to create a committee with proper BIPOC representation of faculty and student composers, musicians, and ethnomusicologists from the Butler School of Music, whose focus is to compose and write a new official school spirit song.Adopt equitable and inclusive practices in the recruitment, selection, and promotion of UT faculty.According to the 2019 census, 12.8% of the population of Texas is African American or Black.  However, only 3.8% of faculty at UT identify as Black or African American as of 2019. Within this, we see disparities within ranks and tenure status as well. Although 30.4% of White faculty are Full Professors, only 25.9% of Black faculty are Full Professors. Among all Full Professors nationally, 3.8% of Full Professors are Black, but only 3.4% of UT’s Full Professors are Black40. For other comparable public universities such as Texas A&M University, 4.4% of Full Professors are Black. Thus, this points to disparities within recruitment, retention, and promoting of Black faculty members at UT compared to other peer institutions.According to the University of Texas Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) which was adopted in 2017, the University committed to expanding culturally diverse faculty through the establishment of new recruitment practices and the creation of an advocates/allies program for faculty among other tangible action items. Since this plan was released, there has been limited transparency with the student body as to how this plan is being implemented, and the DIAP progress updates website has not been updated since 2018, despite the promise of annual updates.The University must continue to uphold the action items outlined in its DIAP and further expand its efforts to uphold conversations and actions to recruit and retain faculty from underrepresented backgrounds. Accountability and transparency structures should be placed on Colleges and Schools through the Council for Racial and Ethnic Equity and Diversity (CREED), such as establishing an expedited timeline for these changes to be implemented and providing semesterly updates to the public on the implementation of these faculty recruitment, selection, and retention processes. We also recommend that Colleges adopt the guidelines laid out in the Inclusive Search and Recruitment Toolkit developed by Dr. Shelly Payne, Advisor to the CNS Dean for Diversity and Inclusion.Furthermore, the University must increase funding for ethnic studies departments, and centers such as African and African Diaspora Studies, Program in Native American and Indigenous Studies, Mexican American Latino/a Studies, and Center for Asian American Studies. There is a clear student interest in the classes offered by these departments, and the University needs to ensure that these courses and majors are accessible to students. These departments/centers are cultural centers that serve as spaces for students to learn about racial history as well as systemic inequity.Institutionalize and fund an annual UT Campus Climate Survey on racism, queerphobia, classism, ableism, and all other connected forms of oppressionIn an effort to continuously identify and work towards resolving issues on campus related to all forms of discrimination and oppression, UT must institutionalize and fund an annual campus climate survey and review through a third-party, as well as incorporating questions surrounding student safety in already existing Course Instructor Surveys (CIS). There is a precedent for this University-wide climate surveys, as UCLA conducted a similar survey in 2019. Additionally, many student led collectives have advocated for CIS to include an assessment of student safety in classrooms, including the Coalition Against Sexual Misconduct, Natural Sciences Council, Liberal Arts Council, and the Daily Texan.There is already a precedent for climate surveys as we have seen through the UT Systems Cultivating Learning and Safe Environments (CLASE) survey on domestic violence and sexual assault. Through this survey, UT Austin is able to collect data and write reports identifying specific action items the University must pursue to ensure student safety.This survey should be hosted by relevant offices such as the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (DDCE) with funding allocated to these offices in order to administer the survey and analyze the data. We request that student input is used to develop the questions on this campus climate survey.Several action items from this statement have been requested by UT students for many years. Student legislative records show the same requests being made and delayed, forcing students to graduate before seeing their initiatives followed through. Students recognize that this unfortunate cycle is not uncommon in higher education. Amidst the Black Lives Matter movement, several universities across the U.S have broken this pattern and made steps towards achieving similar action items. They have set the precedent for UT to do the same. A “university of the first class” should not only condemn racial violence and show support for BIPOC communities through words. Our mandate to be a “university of the first class” requires action.The UT student community demands that administrators listen to students in this period of historical change by addressing these 8 tangible action items and working to make our campus more equitable and inclusive.This statement was collaborated with and endorsed by the following BIPOC UT student organizations:UT National Association for the Advancement of Colored People ChapterOnyx Honor SocietyAssociation of Black Computer ScientistsNative American and Indigenous CollectiveAfrikan American AffairsAfrican American Culture CommitteeZeta Phi Beta Sorority, Incorporated - Omicron Theta ChapterBlackPrintUT’s Chapter of the National Association of Black JournalistsUT's Chapter of the National Society of Black EngineersBlack Health Professionals OrganizationBlack Business Students AssociationUT’s Chapter of the National Black Law Students AssociationBlack Honors Student AssociationBlack Student AllianceBlack Graduate Students AssociationTo sign your name onto the statement, please fill out this form: . Please do not request edit access.Signed by 4,045 UT students, staff, faculty, and alumni. See  for a distribution of signatures across these categories and across UT Colleges.Table of Contents for Signatures:

Black Students Demand Action from UCSF School of Medicine (SOM)Created by the  Black SOM community in June 2020PHASE 1 DEMANDSDemands will be presented to: SOM Deans on 6/17/2020All Students: Institute a workflow that will go in effect when subsequent national racial trauma occurs (which is inevitable) that will center & support Black students and allow them the academic respite that they need.For example: This year (June 2020) students were offered the opportunity to “pause school” (both in FS1 and FS2). We were grateful for this opportunity and even for the students who did not choose to pause schooling, the sense of agency provided by this option was crucial to us. In the future, a workflow could be deployed in which students are offered a break from academic responsibilities for an X amount of days. It is important that Deans emphasize that students will not face repercussions (including biased clinical evaluations) for choosing to take this academic respite and outline how students can make up for the work that they missed during this voluntary respite period.Office of Student Health and Counselling Services: Guarantee 10 individual mental health counselling sessions (preferably with therapists of color) for all Black students in need, regardless of how many previous sessions they have already had with this Office, through the end of 2020.Allow students to host events that are restricted to only students who identify as Black. Creating spaces such as these are important and therapeutic to our community. We have received push-back and censorship in the past when attempting to create Black-only spaces, which are akin to race-based caucusing, a validated anti-racist tool developed to promote healing, growth, and racial equity. These events actively challenge and buffer stereotype threat and imposter syndrome, which are pervasive in communities that are underrepresented in medicine. The UCSF Chancellor, Vice Chancellor of Diversity, SOM Deans and MSTP Director: meet with chief of security department by July 31, 2020 to discuss ongoing racial profiling of Black community members, patients, students, staff, and faculty in the office buildings, shuttles, residential buildings. F1/Pre-Clinical Students: SOM Deans: provide a statement to the incoming Class of 2024 before July 15th 2020 to communicate the following:Acknowledgement of the recent events (re: Police violence and structural racism) and the toll that this continues to take on students, particularly Black students.Declare police violence as a public health issue.List what resources are available to support incoming students during this time.Course Directors: Communicate to pre-clinical students by July 15th 2020 the specific steps they will be taking to incorporate explicit anti-racism curriculum into F1 (beyond H&I and H&S).F2/Clinical Students:Clerkship Directors & Dean Hauer: provide a statement to current rotating students before July 15th 2020 to address the following:Acknowledgement of the recent events (re: Police violence and structural racism) and the toll that this continues to take on students, particularly Black students.Communicate the specific steps they are taking to address discriminatory and racialized assessment practices.Provide the following data: what percentage of clerkship and clinical site directors have completed Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Champion Training? What is the average number of hours of training each director has completed?If we have paused our EMLR and LIC work, what does the make up for that look like?List: steps that the SOM is taking to ensure that students will not be penalized for their time away.SOM Deans: Grant students with elective credit for work done to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives within the School of Medicine. This includes (but is not limited to) advocacy/activism efforts, curriculum development, and community engagement work. All other electives require 8-10hours of work for 1 unit. Identify faculty leaders who can sign off on these efforts for elective credit. 
As faculty, we need to be more proactive about sharing information and resources with you, and
also need to take steps such as incorporating more information about scientiﬁc racism into all of
our courses. And the entire department—students and faculty alike—must do the work to
educate ourselves and think deeply about our biases and cultural encumbrances. So as a start,
here is a list of articles and resources speciﬁc to Geosciences, which we hope will help you
understand the structural problems in the discipline. We all live with these historical realities.
We must all work to change them.

The Geosciences Community Needs to Be More Diverse and Inclusive: Bell and White,
Scientiﬁc American, 2020

Deep Biases Prevent Diverse Talent from Advancing: Howley, EOS, 2020
No progress on Diversity in 40 years: Bernard and Cooperdock, 2018, Nature Geosciences

Race and Racism in the Geosciences: Dutt, 2019, Nature Geosciences
Earth Science has a Whiteness Problem: Goldberg 2019, New York Times.

Women from some under-represented minorities are given too few talks at world’s largest
Earth-science conference: Ford et a1. 2019, Nature.

Scientists push against barriers to diversity in the ﬁeld sciences: Pickrell 2020, Science.
A Primer on Diversity (with specific Geosciences examples and resources)

This work is not easy. We, your professors and mentors, are prepared to feel uncomfortable and
know that we will make mistakes, but we are committed to doing this work long—term. We are
here for all of you.

With warm regards,

Phoebe Cohen
Alex Apotsos
Alice Bradley

J osé Constantine
Mea Cook
Ronadh Cox

Paul Karabinos
Bud Wobus


comment Race and racism in the geosciences Geoscientists in the United States are predominantly White. Progress towards diversifcation can only come with a  concerted shift in mindsets and a deeper understanding of the complexities of race. Kuheli Dutt The geosciences are among the  least diverse science, technology,  engineering and mathematics (STEM)  fields in the United States, with almost  90% of doctoral degrees awarded to White  people1. And racial diversity in PhD-level  Earth scientists has not improved over the  past four decades, with faculty of colour  holding only 3.8% of tenured or tenure  track positions in the top 100 geoscience  departments2. The less diverse a field, the  less welcoming it is to minorities, and the  more prevalent implicit biases become.  Combined with structural and social factors,  the relative homogeneity in geoscience  reinforces the dominant culture. As a result,  women3, people from sexual and gender  minorities4, and Black and Hispanic people5 all leave the field at higher rates than the  average student or practitioner. The term ‘colourblind racism’6 is  used to describe the declaration that  someone simply does not see colour,  denoting a subtler form of racism than  overt racism. Many White people who  are not aware of (and would deny having)  any racist tendencies unwittingly engage  in it. Although this is not intentional,  disregarding race in a setting with a strong  imbalance in power — as is the case in many  US geoscience departments — reinforces  race being viewed by default from a  perspective of being White. Racism versus prejudice Racism and prejudice are distinct, in  that racism denotes a systemic advantage  that benefits a dominant group, such as  White people, whereas prejudice suggests  individual bias. People of any race can  be prejudiced, yet systemic racism is not  so much about prejudice as it is about a  power differential between majority and  minority groups. Many White people do not  acknowledge systemic racism. This can be  perceived by people of colour as a lack of  awareness, or as a lack of caring from those  who are not exposed to it. As the Diversity Officer for a geoscience  campus with predominantly White students  and staff, I have noticed a consistent pattern:  there is a massive disconnect between how  White people and people of colour view  Nature Geoscience | www.nature.com/naturegeosciencerace. People of colour tend to view race as  an important part of their identity, whereas  White people tend to view it as incidental.  Moreover, references to race and racism  often make people of colour feel seen and  heard, whereas White people tend to view  such references as unnecessary or even  inappropriate. Another consistent pattern I  have noticed is that most people of colour  do not feel comfortable discussing race with  White colleagues. This is not because they  think those White people are bad people  — on the contrary, I often hear glowing  accounts about mentors and supervisors. But  people of colour fear that such discussions  might trigger tensions that they want to  avoid, especially in hierarchical settings such  as academia. “Most people of colour do not  feel comfortable discussing  race with White colleagues.  This is not because they think  those White people are  bad people.” Implicit racism is deeply embedded in  US society, and geoscience culture is no  exception. A lack of awareness exacerbates  the problem. First, many individuals who are  privileged by belonging to dominant groups  do not feel responsible for the systemic  racism in that culture. Second, the subject of  privileges that White researchers enjoy is an  uncomfortable topic as many White people  equate it with being implicated in racism,  feeling that it challenges their identities as  good people. This is a misconception: having  privileges as a consequence of being White  does not mean that one has not experienced  other forms of oppression, it just means that  racism is not one of them. Third, when it  is the norm to be White, maintaining the  comfort of White people becomes part of  the unwritten code of a culture, a code that  people of colour often follow. Oblivious to bias Not acknowledging this bias means that the  realities of people of colour are dismissed,  often by obliviousness rather than out of  malice. For example, the 2019 Survey of US  College and University Presidents7 showed  that whereas only 25% of presidents viewed  race relations on college campuses overall  as good or excellent, 81% of presidents  rated race relations on their own campus  as good or excellent. Furthermore, in US  colleges, more than 80% of presidencies  and 75% of managerial positions are held  by White people. That is, people who do  not experience systemic racial oppression  themselves end up dominating the  racial narrative, regardless of the actual  experiences of people of colour. Earlier this summer, our graduate  students were targeted with hateful, racist  e-mails from an anonymous sender.  Many were shaken by the incident, and  we took the opportunity to open up a  deeper conversation on campus about  race and racial bias. There was widespread  condemnation of the incident. However,  people responded differently in terms of the  ownership that they felt when a minority  group was attacked. Whereas some engaged  in community events around the incident,  others expressed concern that they were  being asked to attend a racial bias training  despite not being responsible for the e-mails.  If we truly want to create an inclusive  geoscience culture, dominant groups need  to take ownership, instead of minorities  bearing the burden8. This is easier said than done, when  different groups do not even see the  problem through the same lens. A survey  by the Pew Center on perceptions of race  and inequality in the United States found  profound differences between Black and  White adults, with 88% of Black respondents  expressing that racial inequality needed  to be addressed, compared with only  53% of White respondents9. In a different  study that included STEM and non-STEM  faculty, as well as people from the general  public, men tended to be more skeptical  of gender bias research than women, and  this was especially prominent among male  STEM faculty10. These results suggests that  people who don’t experience a certain type  of inequity tend to dismiss it more easily  than those who do. If the experiences of  minorities are collectively dismissed, that  comment can lead to a feeling of not belonging, which  in the geosciences is a powerful force that  can drive minorities away from the field11. Diversity and inclusion cannot exist  without a sense of belonging. We need to  acknowledge people’s identities for them to  feel included. Focusing on diversity without  inclusion makes marginalized groups  feel that they merely serve as a diversity  statistic, and that in reality their voices  and experiences do not count. Besides, the  culture of objectivity, or being removed  from the subject matter — which is essential  for science — works abysmally for topics  like racism, where feelings, emotions, and  identities play an enormous role. Individual responsibility On a personal level there are three things  that White geoscientists can do immediately.  First, they should separate their privilege as  a White person from their identity as a good  person. Conflating the two leads to feelings  of anger, denial and defensiveness, because  racism tends to be viewed as a character  defect rather than the system of advantage  and social conditioning that it really is.  Second, to see these issues more clearly,  White people need to better understand  the perspectives of people of colour by, for  example, reading about them6,12,13. These  topics are uncomfortable, and often evoke  strong reactions, but avoiding them will only  worsen the problem. Those in positions of  privilege should regularly ask themselves  what they are doing to combat racism and  promote inclusion, as a simple, but effective,  reality check. Third, White people need to  engage in discussions about race with other  White people to move the dial from personal  awareness to addressing the dominant  culture, ideally in campus-wide dialogues.  It is important to avoid putting minorities  on the spot: just as there is no single White  opinion on race, there is no single Black or  Latinx or Asian opinion. At an institutional level, leaders need to  be especially proactive. Affinity bias — the  tendency to prefer people like ourselves — is  extremely powerful and exists within each  of us. When the leadership is predominantly  White, new faculty and leadership  appointments are often White. This is  sometimes blamed on the low percentage  of minorities in geoscience, but the reality  is more complex: we tend to see merit in  people who resemble us. More people of  colour need to be appointed to leadership  positions, and we need to invest in minority  students14 and faculty15. Diversity and inclusion need to be  prioritized in institutional procedures  such as search and awards committees.  Furthermore, bias training needs to be  considered on a par with scientific and  technical training. To set an example,  institutional leaders should visibly and  actively participate in bias trainings16.  There are mixed opinions about the efficacy  of bias trainings, as it takes more than  training to transform a culture. Nevertheless,  bias trainings are still an essential first  step towards better understanding race  and racism. A lack of diversity and inclusion is the  single largest cultural problem facing the  geosciences today, and this is probably not  just limited to the United States. We need  a systemic cultural change that can only  happen when people are not only willing to  acknowledge the problem, but also to take  individual responsibility for it. The only way  we can change the geoscience culture is by  a massive shift in individual mindsets, with  the aim of moving the field from passively  non-racist to actively anti-racist. ❐ Kuheli Dutt Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory,  Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.  e-mail: kdutt@ldeo.columbia.edu Published: xx xx xxxx https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-019-0519-z References 1. Status of the Geoscience Workforce (American Geosciences  Institute, 2016). 2. Bernard, R. E. & Cooperdock, E. H. Nat. Geosci. 11,  292–295 (2018). 3. Holmes, M. A., OConnell, S. & Dutt, K. Women in the  Geosciences: Practical, Positive Practices Toward Parity (American Geophysical Union, 2015). 4. Hughes, B. E. Sci. Adv. 4, eaao6373 (2018). 5. Riegle-Crumb, C., King, B. & Irizarry, Y. Educ. Res. 48,  133–144 (2019). 6. Bonilla-Silva, E. Racism Without Racists: Color-blind Racism  and the Persistence of Racial Inequality in the United States (Rowman & Littlefeld, 2017). 7. 2019 Survey of College and University Presidents: A Study by Inside  Higher Ed and Gallup (Inside Higher Ed, 2019). 8. Jimenez, M. F. et al. Nat. Ecol. Evol. 3, 1030–1033 (2019). 9. On Views of Race and Inequality, Blacks and Whites are Worlds Apart (Pew Research Center, 2016). 10. Handley, I. M., Brown, E. R., Moss-Racusin, C. A. & Smith, J. L.  Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 112, 13201–13206 (2015). 11. Huntoon, J. E., Tanenbaum, C. & Hodges, J. Eos 96, https://doi. org/10.1029/2015EO025897 (2015). 12. DiAngelo, R. White Fragility: Why it’s so Hard for White People to  Talk About Racism (Beacon, 2018). 13. Sue, D. W. Race Talk and the Conspiracy of Silence (Wiley, 2016). 14. Stokes, P. J., Levine, R. & Flessa, K. W. J. Geosci. Educ. 63,  250–263 (2015). 15. Baber, L. D., Pifer, M. J., Colbeck, C. & Furman, T. J. Geosci. Educ. 58, 32–42 (2010). 16. Reducing the Impact of Bias in the STEM Workforce (National  Science Foundation, 2016). Nature Geoscience | www.nature.com/naturegeoscience
To the RISD illustration administration and fine arts department, We are a group of RISD illustration students holding the department accountable for RISD’s written commitment to “affect real, systemic change within our institution" in relation to the department’s complicity in perpetuating anti-blackness and systems of harm against BIPOC students and educators. Speaking on behalf of current and past students of illustration, we ask that you actively listen to our grievances, implement our list of demands and work out structural changes within the department with the help of student input. We ask that you respond with a new plan by Friday 7/10, before the leave of absence deadline. We patiently await your answers addressing how we can build a better education environment together. Introduction Though course evaluation has been done every semester (except for Spring 2020), the data has never been released to the students, and we have not seen any visible changes from the feedback. There is also no system in place for general feedback and requests on the department level. We feel it is important that we have access to our collective opinions and experiences, and believe in our collective power to affect changes within the department. Thus, we have organized a survey reporting illustration faculty incompetence and misconduct as well as general demands for the department. The findings will be publicized to past, current, and incoming RISD students as well as the public. The data will also be used in this document to justify and support our demands. It cannot be more apparent than now that the continued protection afforded to professors that abuse their positions to perpetuate harm comes at the cost of qualified professors, eager-to-learn students and the reputation of RISD as a whole. The journeys of BIPOC students and educators in academia are filled with difficulties posed by the system and by the individuals they encounter. Racism and other prejudices are systemic, and we see the need for everyone in every step of the ladder to actively strive to be anti-racist. We need to point out the skewed standards imposed 1against non-white professors and students, and ask for RISD illustration to listen and respond to the voices you regularly ignore and sideline. Based on student input, we have organized a list of demands specific to RISD illustration. We hope that this can be the beginning of a series of changes to the department that will help us move forward. 1. Immediate removal of David Porter and Chris Buzelli 2. Mandatory department-wide comprehensive anti-prejudice group and individual training by outside professional; installation of professional in RISD as educational resource for faculty 3. Unsatisfactory professors replaced by POC or marginalized gender active-in-industry professors; actionable plan for attracting and retaining POC and marginalized gender working professors 4. Restructuring of sophomore foundation year and History of Illustration 5. Establishment of student input in new courses/faculty acquired; public platform for unionized student voices; acknowledgement of past administration mishandling of reports 21. Immediate removal of David Porter and Chris Buzelli We demand the immediate removal of David Porter for his offensive, inappropriate behavior in class and his failure to properly engage in academic or social discussions. from our survey sent to illustration students at RISD 2019-20, we have received 62 reports of his misconduct in various classes. We are aware that he plans on retiring next year. We refuse to grant him an easy retirement with all the benefits when he has caused so much pain for almost every student unfortunate enough to be enrolled in his class. His antagonism has always been active, and the continued leniency granted to him by the administration is also an active attack on the student body, especially the underrepresented voices of BIPOC, women, LBGT+ and of other minority groups. There have been many reports of his misconduct throughout his years at RISD, and many more attempts from students to confront and correct his inexcusable behavior. All student reports were met with adamant, aggressive defensiveness from him and apathy from the admins. We wonder why RISD and the illustration administration have continued to cover for and allow this individual to keep teaching, when he has made pedophilic, anti-semitic, racist, misogynistic, sexist, transphobic comments, jokes, and verbal attacks on students during class. His inability to tolerate the slightest amount of dissent as shown by his constant ranting, victim blaming, and targeted mockery makes it impossible to engage in any class critique, even without bringing up any of the aforementioned issues. These are just a fraction of the corrosive actions he has exhibited at RISD: making sexual comments about children, going as far as bringing in lingerie for children to show the class; referring to a dark-skinned person in a students’ work as animal and monster, questioning belligerently why students would depict POCs in their homework instead of white people, and saying the n-word in class; downplaying the horrors of the Holocaust, saying that Nazis were not so bad, he would not mind killing Jews explicitly; actively searching for work on gender issues and attacking students on their identities and expressions of them in their works; making light of and cracking jokes about anorexia and suicide on many occassions; sexualizing and objectifying any women depicted in illustrations, wax poetry and joke about sexual assault; belittling, mocking and antagonizing students when they voice their disagreement about his conduct and teaching methods; and giving unsolicited 3comments on students’ appearances. The continual protection by the department has even led him to openly taunt students to report him in multiple years, saying that his tenure prevents any consequences befalling him regardless of his actions, which has unfortunately proven true. All attempts at questioning his behavior by the students have been met with aggression, condescension and retaliation from him. All attempts at reporting him to the illustration administration and the fine arts department head have been brushed off as individual misunderstandings from the students. We have been asked to “calm down,” to “let it go,” to “give him time” and a certain admin even suggested visiting psychological counseling for our continual “misunderstanding” and unwillingness to let the issue go. We will not passively wait for his leave and allow him to enjoy the benefits of an easy retirement when students not only stagnated academically during his class, but also suffered unwarranted personal attacks. His continued presence at RISD illustration is an offense to not only those who he personally traumatized , but also to the entire student body promised an inclusive, productive learning environment. The department head and dean of fine arts must provide an explanation on why David Porter was allowed to teach at RISD despite yearly student efforts to remove him. The administration must also answer as to why they refused requests to transfer class from those who are personally traumatized by him. The refusal to accommodate has forced students to leave the classroom or drop the class to protect their wellbeing, resulting in permanent marks on on their transcripts and mandatory make up classes. The department must be held accountable. Structures that continue to value his voice above students’ wellbeing, especially that of BIPOC students, are harmful and racist and must be fixed immediately. We also demand the removal of Chris Buzelli for his abuse of power inside and outside the classroom, loaded threats against speaking out, and his perpetration of the elitist, exclusionary system of the editorial industry and of RISD. 15 RISD illustration students reported his misconduct, as well as many others at SVA echoing the same issues. Within RISD, his teaching methods have built up an intensely unhealthy, destructive environment inside the classroom. His usage of the numerical ranking/voting system which assigns everyone value based on the work produced this week promotes students basing their self-worth on 4their success and others’ “failure” as well as unnecessary competition. His contract prank where he tricks students into signing a contract and then mocks them for signing a professionally horrible deal is not only belittling and cruel, but also an abuse of his power as a teacher and as a fellow illustrator. There are also accounts of him publicizing private student emails excusing oneself due to health issues as a “teaching moment” against being “lazy” and “not driven.” To those he does not approve of, he is apathetic and rude, often giving them minimum feedback and assistance. Past students reported that his classes were discouraging and damaging, with his public verbal attacks on self-worth leaving traumatic effects on students’ mental health even well into their careers after RISD. There is little concern for student improvement outside of the selected few he favors, which is an undeniably horrible quality for a teacher. Though he provides guidance and feedback to those who he favors, he constantly reminds them of his power over them as an established industry veteran. There have been reports of him speaking to and about students of different cultures in ignorant and condescending ways. In one instance, when students questioned his approach to accepting work meant for members of underrepresented communities, he quickly became extremely defensive and unapproachable and ended the discussion. He has also warned students against portraying too many POC in their work, saying it makes a piece “political” and that one must watch how much “diversity one puts in an image.” Despite Chris’s wife SooJin Buzelli not teaching at RISD, they have amassed an unimaginable amount of control due to the influence of their outside work. Due to SooJin’s position as an art director, Chris casually reiterates that their approval is necessary to succeed in the editorial industry and grooms students to follow their every word. Instead of using their social power to help students grow in their careers, they have used it to threaten students against speaking about their negative experiences in Chris’s class and opinions on the pair. Multiple students and alumni have provided accounts of being scared into silence by the Buzellis’ implied threats of ruin for the careers of aspiring editorial illustrators. The exploitation often continued post graduation, and in fear of being blacklisted to the entire editorial community, even established alumni did not speak up at all to the underclassmen or outside RISD to their colleagues. (Specific exchanges have been provided by alumni, though we will not detail the encounters to protect their safety and livelihood.) Until the 5recent anonymous instagram post from @blackatsva where a Black SVA alum spoke out about her traumatic experiences in Chris Buzelli’s class there, little had been publicly said about the severity of his misconduct. While the accounts by RISD alumni who suffered under him do not all carry the extra dimension of anti-blackness described in the post from @blackatsva, all speak to the extreme abuse of power by the Buzellis inside and outside the classroom. The Buzellis’ response to the @blackatsva account, though not directly related to RISD, is equally indicative of their inclination to abuse their power and positions of privilege. SooJin Buzelli admitted to abusing her professional relationship as art director with several former students of Christo to influence them to defend Chris Buzelli’s wrongdoings and invalidate the experiences of a Black artist at all costs. Previous student JooHee Yoon who was asked by SooJin to defend Chris spoke about feeling “indebted” and “[having] little choice or time” to come to Chris Buzelli’s defense when asked. Chris Buzelli’s apology following the ensuing backlash was centered on the friendships he lost due to SooJin’s misuse of influence and his own teaching methods, not on the students he harmed in the process. His statement does not address the root of the problem, which is their active upholding of elitist, gatekeeping ways in the editorial industry that disproportionately affect the BIPOC artists and his abuse of social power to threaten, invalidate and silence students. Regardless of the intent behind his apology, his past behavior is severely damaging and warrants serious consequences. We demand the immediate removal of Chris Buzelli for the wellbeing of RISD students and for the health of the educational environment. We demand an investigation of potential misconduct on Chris’ part while at RISD independent of his influence. Meanwhile, illustration must hire one more working editorial illustrator/educator with similar standing and the passion and ability to treat all students with respect. In order to get rid of the situation where a single professor could wield and abuse this much power, we demand more department-sponsored speakers and visitors from the editorial, entertainment, gaming, and other sectors of the illustration industry. We demand a department-wide zero-tolerance policy, effective immediately, with respect to industry-based intimidation and threats against students. We hope Chris Buzelli will read, reflect and respond to this letter and readings on power imbalances and systemic prejudice. We will not stand for the exploitation of students, nor the administration’s coddling of teachers who engage in such practices. 62. Mandatory department-wide comprehensive anti-prejudice group and individual training by outside professional(s); installation of said professional(s) as an educational resource for faculty We demand mandatory department-wide anti-racist, anti-prejudice training by a hired professional(s), to be repeated every year. Multiple students reported that teachers usually apologized when confronted about behaving disrespectfully, but continued to make similar mistakes in the future. Some have also reported faculty letting inappropriate comments and depictions by other students slide. Though the classroom is an environment for good faith discussions, it is not the students’ responsibility to hold lengthy explanations on proper conduct. The purpose of this training would be to help teachers with good intentions to understand perspectives they are not familiar with in a productive, educational environment, so they can have the knowledge and awareness to better hold themselves and their students accountable in the future. We ask for teachers to learn, ask questions and facilitate discussions amongst themselves without the pressure of being correct. We think this will not only build a better learning environment for students, but also help teachers become better critical thinkers and educators on contemporary issues, which are inseparable from any kind of illustration. With knowledge and awareness, we ask the teachers to hold students responsible as well. Educators are moderators in classroom discussions, thus they must point out and correct instances of prejudice and bigotry in students’ works and comments to uphold a positive learning environment for all. Students have expressed desires for faculty training on the following fields: race, ethnicity and why certain terms, depictions or imitations are charged and unacceptable; awareness of non-western perspectives in beliefs, artmaking, history and culture and ways to speak about them without condescension, fetishization and superiority; active attempt at pronouncing students’ names correctly and telling them apart; knowledge of gender minority identities and issues; respecting the mental and physical health of students, giving accommodations for the purpose of helping students succeed, not of pushing students to the standards of their peers who may not need accomodations; mindfulness and conscious effort to confront internal biases and give everyone the help they need; ability to receive feedback and criticisms without unnecessary defensiveness. 7We also demand the administration and hired professionals to speak with professors individually about past student reports with regards to proper conduct. A healthier, more transparent and effective system of giving faculty feedback is necessary, which will be detailed in Part 5. The comments will be used to structure the training sessions and be a source of guidance to personal reflection by the faculty themselves. The hired professional must be the link between students and faculty when conflicts are unable to be resolved, because the administration has failed consistently in the past to address conduct issues. 83. Replacement of professors who fail to meet student expectations with qualified BIPOC and marginalized gender professors; actionable plan for attracting and retaining BIPOC and marginalized gender working professors We reject the department’s pledge to “proactively find and hire BIPoC faculty to teach when courses are open due to sabbaticals or faculty attrition” in its response to risdARC. Waiting for openings (while rejecting student demands of new classes relevant to the industry) is never proactive. In fact, it's active in its upholding of racism and prejudice, and has led to stagnancy on both sides of the classroom. The department has been complicit in gatekeeping the “quality” of academia at the cost of students, faculty and RISD as an institution. Illustration must actively acknowledge its part in upholding systems of inequality and take an active role in ridding itself of problematic elements. We ask for the replacement of professors who struggle to meet student learning expectations, especially in technical program classes. These are professors failing in holding engaging discussions, teaching technical skills, assigning relevant and stimulating homework and updating the course to meet current academic and industry standards. It is not enough that a teacher is merely “nice and well-meaning,” and the class content includes the bare minimum of technical tutorials. The mediocrity of the curriculum is an insult to driven students as well as other working professionals, especially the qualified BIPOC candidates who had to watch their less-than-qualified white counterparts be coddled by the administration with opportunities they were never considered for. In multiple classes, students have been consistently shown outdated Youtube tutorials and how-to Adobe help pages in place of tailored in person instruction. There are also reports of short, unfulfilling “critiques” that are barely pertinent to the class or individual student improvement. In some cases, though the professor had a long history with the program, a lack of current practice has rendered the class to endless excuses about the speed of software updates and explanations for why the instructor cannot find certain functions. In one case, students have had to remind the professor on how to navigate the program on the very first day of class because he had not worked in the program in so long. 9The faculty and courses (beyond sophomore year foundation classes, which will be detailed below) that students receive insufficient teachings are the following: Intro to Digital Illustration with Richard Gann and Paul Olson, Pen and Ink with Nick Jainschigg, 3D Illustration for Illustrators with Nick Jainschigg, Advanced Digital Painting with Richard Gann. (We have reached out to past students to ensure that these methods of “teaching” are not purely because of the limitations COVID-19 has put on learning.) There are doubtlessly many educators active in the industry who are capable of taking over these classes. With the current RISD hybrid teaching plan in response to COVID, there are even more possibilities, as there are no limits to the location of the instructor. We ask for professors who have current knowledge and passion on the subjects, experience and connections in the industry, and drive and commitment that matches those of the students in order to make the classes productive and worthwhile. We demand the department bringing in BIPOC and marginalized gender professors as promised by the administration. Beyond the 2020-21 school year, we ask for a concrete, actionable plan on attracting and retaining BIPOC and marginalized gender professors over the next 5 years, until 2025. This can include support for commuting professors, who are more likely to be actively working in applicable industries. New hires must also be provided with a clear outline on the process of becoming full time faculty, which must be extended to current adjuncts with the intention of becoming full time as well. It is public knowledge that RISD does not treat its adjunct professors well. The department must start valuing its adjunct professors, whose classes are more popular with the students for their proximity to their respective industries. This is also a step forward for the students, who consistently demand more career-oriented classes. 104. Sophomore year foundation changes: better faculty, more stable curriculum, and HOI restructuring We demand changes in the sophomore year foundation curriculum to make it more consistent, cohesive and productive across varying teachers. As of now, illustration’s foundation year fails to meet the expectations of many students who seek to strengthen their technical skills and conceptual thinking skills, which are both necessary for their artistic and personal growth. Curriculum is dependent on the professor assigned, therefore the quality and scope of education received is dependent on pure luck. We want to respect the different teaching styles and emphasis of different teachers, while making sure that all students are able to receive the same basis of instruction. The teacher’s failure to accommodate different students’ skill levels and knowledge in an intro class affects students with lesser resources disproportionately, and must be fixed immediately. Students reported that some professors choose not to teach the foundation principles that could and should be taught, instead opt for “student explorations.” The department insists on the importance of central skills like color theory, perspective, anatomy and conceptual thinking, while giving barely any guidelines or regulations for how those should be taught, resulting in certain mandatory classes being unproductive to student learning. As a result, certain students who have not been taught these fundamentals not only have to learn on their own outside of class despite the same amount of tuition paid, but also struggle in future classes that assume previous knowledge. One responder from the survey noted that they were ill-prepared to take Lenny Long’s intensive course in spring due to their previous drawing professor Bill Drew’s “loose” method of teaching. Additionally, unfulfilling courses go under-reported because many students transfer out of the class or even the department due to the poorness of instruction. For teachers like Bill Drew and David Porter, it is not uncommon to have a quarter to a third of the class gone by the end of the semester. This issue disproportionately affects students with lesser resources, as they are less likely to have prior knowledge or have time and effort to make up for the progress lost. We demand a 6-week set lecture/homework plan for the technical classes (as the basis, teachers are free to add on more but the basics should be guaranteed) with the other weeks left for 11the instructors to decide. For concept classes, we ask for a list of conceptual ideas and skills to go over in class and practice in homework assignments. Specifically, students have requested instruction on social awareness and responsibility of illustration regarding their imagery and its associated meanings. While we agree to the proposal of concept professors introducing us to more BIPOC illustrators, illustration must also stress the critical thinking aspect of image reading and production in concept classes. Students have asked for analysis and discussions on caricatures and other charged imagery and tropes, what to avoid, why avoid it, and ways to explore charged topics respectfully. The faculty and courses that students reported receiving insufficient instruction are the following: Drawing: Perspective with Bill Drew, Drawing: Figure with Trent Burleson, Painting with Trent Burleson and Tony Janello, Visual Strategies and Concepts with David Porter, and Visual Strategies with Polly Becker. Again, as stated above, the continued coddling and protection of barely-satisfactory to failing professors is an active attack on other competent, available candidates. We reject the passive waiting but demand active replacement of professors who fail students consistently. We appreciate the lens of learning History of Illustration as “they speak to hegemonic constructs, the influences of eurocentrism and orientalism, and the effects of capitalism.” However, the critical analysis section is very limited, only appearing in Theme Boxes in the textbook and as possible research paper topics. Most classes are dedicated to lectures on historical accounts, and most of the tests are reliant on memorizing the artists, works, time of production and location. We ask for an expansion on the critical analysis of images and ideas and a condensation of the “hard memorizing” portion of the curriculum. We also demand an expanded explanation on charged and problematic imageries in their context, what to avoid and why. We question the claim that the History of Illustration course “covers art practices and worldviews from every continent to introduce diverse traditions and to validate international students’ backgrounds” in the “what we’ve done” section of the response to risdARC. In reality, “every continent” besides North America and Europe has been limited to single chapters, and the time frames featured are often far from the entire scope of their respective history. 2+ million years 12of illustration in the African context have been stuffed into one chapter. 2+ million years of illustration in the Latin America context have been stuffed into one chapter. 700 years of illustration in the Muslim context (condensed) is stuffed into one chapter. 2100 years of illustration in the Indian context have been stuffed into one chapter. 300 years of Japanese illustration have been stuffed in one chapter. Note that even with this compression the book’s coverage of non-Western histories image-making still does not come close to being complete. The other 24 chapters of the book are devoted solely to the growth and change of Western illustration. While some of the global history of illustration is Western in "origin," pretending it is largely or even exclusively Western denies the global genealogy of Western methodologies. This is a Eurocentric trope. The course fails to adequately present the global view it claims to deliver and continues to perpetuate hegemonic constructs, eurocentrism, orientalism and global capitalism. It is not merely enough to acknowledge the course’s shortcomings; we must take action to change it. We demand condensation of the Western sections and further expansion of the glossed-over non-Western sections. The non-Western world deserves equal weight. We demand guest professors from THAD to teach from their expertise and background, as there are plenty of faculty well versed in art histories relating to diverse global cultures and histories. They must be compensated for this labor if used, even if in consultation alone. 135. Establishment of student input in new courses/faculty acquired; public platform for unionized student voices; acknowledgement of past administration mishandling of reports Students participating in the survey are overwhelmingly asking for more concepts courses (the limited number of concepts classes have rendered them almost exclusive to seniors), more career/industry-oriented classes in entertainment, animation, gaming, and business and speakers from different fields of illustration. Our demands have been ignored regularly because of the lack of an existing mechanism for collecting and unionizing voices. We must build it now. We reject the department’s proposal to create a workstudy position of “ongoing student peer mentorship for each grade level, to liaise with BIPoC students” for a number of reasons. The duties described overlap those of the department reps, the RAs and of the department administrative coordinator. We also find fault with the current setup that asks BIPOC students to “navigate” the department. The problem was never the disconnect from help and resources. It has always been the department’s willful ignorance and downplay of our concerns and demands, as well as the system that allows for the constant erasure of our voices. In its place, we demand the creation of a constructive communication system between the administration and the students that is committed to actualizing student suggestions. The department administration has a history of making light of student concerns as individual misunderstandings or singular occurrences. We demand our opinions to be listened to on decisions like new courses and hiring of faculty, and used in the decision making process. Illustration must work with its students, not just the department head, to deliver the inclusive learning environment it claims to have. We also ask for the numeric fields on Course Evaluation forms to be tallied and publicized each semester, so we can hold the professors accountable for quality of teaching and demand new teachers when they fail to deliver what is promised. 14Closing Statement This list of demands was created because we care deeply about our community of students, faculty, staff and department. There are elements destructive to building equity and inclusion that need to be acknowledged and rectified. We look forward to building a better education and living environment with you. We ask that the illustration department respond to this letter with formal written statements and a timeline detailing the application of our demands by 7/10, before the leave of absence deadline. This letter will be available on the website of risdARC. We will also be posting data and individual testimonies collected by our student-led survey on the account @risdillusdata. We must acknowledge those who paved the way for this conversation to happen, specifically the risd Anti-Racism Coalition. We thank all the courageous students and alumni who spoke up against injustices in the past and in our survey. We would like to close by reiterating risdARC’s statement: “Our demands as a collective hold RISD accountable for its proclaimed commitment to fostering a truly inclusive and socially equitable community on our campus. Efforts towards social, equity, and inclusion cannot be solely the responsibility of SEI but should be ingrained in the core of our institution. This means every department, administrative decision, faculty hiring process, and Public Safety development and course curriculum needs to acknowledge and work to combat racial-bias and the systemic injustices that are violently oppressing Black, Brown, Indigenous, and all people of color.” Respectfully, RISD illustration students, past and present July 6, 2020 15
Ashland University,	As a black student on Ashland’s campus I am tired. I am tired of my black peers being harassed, profiled, and traumatized because of their skin color. I am disappointed in the lack of support from university administrators, faculty, and staff.The conversations in response to the recent murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery have lacked crucial action steps that the university, it’s students, staff, and faculty should be taking to shift the culture on campus.The university owes its students of color more than it has pretended to give. I would like to formally demand the following five things from the university.Greater access to resources and training addressing systemic/systematic racism in our nation, the history of movements like BLM, and ways to make spaces more equitable and inclusive.Mandatory campus shield notifications for any serious crime or incident that is discriminatory or racist in nature. Incidents should be labeled by Terri Link and a student task force. The promotion, prioritization, and funding to support Black Student Alliance and other ODI organizations, events, and programming. Compensation for students of color involved in new task forces and initiatives that will benefit the university as a whole.Elevation of the voices of black students, faculty, and staff in university mailouts, social media accounts, on campus events, etc. Ashland University claims to be an institution that “places great emphasis on the importance of each individual.” I believe that this statement only applies to white students. Students of color, in particular black students, are long overdue respect, support, and protection  on campus. 	As VP Pool said in the forum held on Monday, true colors are shown by letting your calendar and your checkbook prove your priorities. I believe it is time for the university to step up with their time and their money. It is time for Ashland University to shift the culture. It is time for Ashland University to uplift its communities of color.
from you. You have been silent. Your apathy toward me is prideful. If you offered me an apology today,
your words would be deemed empty.

I feel invisible in the IoES La Kretz department and I avoid going there. When multiple professors asked
to relocate our meeting room for the Issues and Methods class to help prevent the unease that other
students and I were feeling in the department, you ignored the request. I spent the winter quarter in the
glass conference room next to your office. Although I bumped into you multiple times over those few
months, you did not even afford me with an acknowledgment of my existence with a simple hello.

I have received your silence as an affirmation that you are sorry that I was offended, but you are not sorry
that you offended me.

I find it appalling that you were afforded multiple opportunities to mend an interpersonal relationship with
the only Black student in your PhD. program. You reﬁJsed to do so to protect your pride. I am exhausted
from my experiences of isolation, given the climate for race and gender while navigating the opaque
power structures of the department. Instead of supporting me as a part of this program, you have made it
extremely difﬁcult for me to be productive in my studies because of your disturbingly glib leadership.

I Do not want an empty apology. I want you to:

1. Support the immediate diversiﬁcation of the graduate student body. Including providing
the option to transfer in Black and URM students who have applied to IoES with funding
and admitting Black and URM prospective students with funding.

2. Get written input and approval from a committee of students and faculty from
under-represented groups before sending messages, organizing, or fundraising on racial
justice issues on behalf of the Institute.

3. Stop tokenism and the exploitation of race for fundraising, communication, and photo
opportunities.

Peter, what are you going to do?

Sincerely,

WM W0

Danielle Hoague
First Year Ph.D. Student


 

*** ** end of letter*****



Dear UC Berkeley Physics Faculty and Administration, In the wake of several brutal murders of Black individuals by police, Particles for Justice called for a #Strike4BlackLives on June 10, 2020. We Physics graduate students joined the strike to begin addressing the systemic racism that has existed in the UC Berkeley Department of Physics since its inception. For far too long, people of color – in particular, Black and Indigenous people of color – have had to bear the burden of participating in a system that is deeply biased against them. Racial inequities exist both in academia at large and here in our department, and we must take immediate steps to address them. During the teach-ins, town halls, and painfully illuminative discussions that occurred as part of the strike, the graduate student community identified aspects of our department’s structure and culture that actively harm underrepresented students of color. Two committees of graduate students – one with department-wide representation and one consisting of students of color – drew on published research (in particular, the American Institute of Physics’ TEAM-UP report) as well as their own lived experiences to create a list of action items for department leadership. Our full action plan can be found here. With the counsel of the students of color committee, we have selected from the action plan the following 12 most urgent items, which we demand the department address within the indicated time frames or as soon as possible. These action items are given below in order of priority: 1. By the end of Fall 2020, procure a plan that will financially provide research funding for all undergraduates who identify as underrepresented minorities (URM) by the end of Spring 2023. The fact that the vast majority of undergraduate research in the Physics Department is unpaid is a major burden for URM students who do not have the economic privilege to pursue unpaid research. In short, if you want URM undergraduates to stay in the department, pay them to do research. 2. Commit to recruiting URM faculty and students to the department: ● Make a financial commitment to the recruitment of undergraduate and graduate students of color through diverse actions, for example: ○ Offering travel grants for students and postdocs of color to give research seminars and meet with prospective graduate school applicants at diverse institutions, e.g. CSUs, Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), and local community colleges. ○ Flying or busing in prospective URM students for an overnight program, similar to UC Santa Cruz's Student-Initiated Outreach for Admitted Students recruitment programs. ○ Offering grants for sending URM students to conferences that support their academic and career success, such as the annual conference of the National Society of Black Physicists.● Make a financial commitment to the recruitment of faculty of color, for example: ○ Developing a funding plan that, within the next five years, will facilitate the hiring of multiple URM (and in particular, Black) tenure-track faculty and will conduct a broad faculty search across all subfields, which should be aggressively advertised in diverse arenas, e.g. organizations such as NBSP. 3. Actively support and advertise for the Compass Project as the flagship program for mentorship and community-building among URM in the Department of Physics. ● The Compass Project mission statement is currently being updated to make its first and foremost priority the community betterment of URM, and in particular Black and Indigenous people of color. 4. Provide $1,000 of departmental funding per month and active advertisement for monthly POC-specific programming (e.g. dinners and retreats) from the Fall 2020 semester onward. 5. Before the Fall 2020 semester, assess and communicate progress towards the recommendations of this letter and its accompanying action plan, as well as the goals laid out in the 2016 Equity, Inclusion and Diversity Strategic Plan. ● The review of the Strategic Plan should be completed every two years in a subsequent report circulated to faculty, staff, postdocs, students, and other stakeholders. 6. Compile a classification list of racially insensitive and/or potentially discriminatory behavior, ranging from microaggressions to Title VI / Title IX offenses, along with their respective concrete repercussions. In addition, confirmed offenses of this list’s items should be taken into consideration for professors’ promotions, raises, and tenure. ● Before August 1, 2020, hold a meeting with undergraduate and graduate students present to discuss the establishment of a system for reporting transgressions on the classification list (e.g. a potentially anonymous grievance box specifically for reporting microaggressions or inappropriate comments). ● Commit to making the results of investigations transparent to all physics faculty members. ● Appoint a specific Person-of-Contact to manage communications, investigations, and repercussions pertaining to complaints. 7. Include a comprehensive and up-to-date list of resources for URM students on the Berkeley Physics website by the beginning of the Spring 2021 semester. Lack of accessibility of information, especially concerning resources for URM students, is a significant obstacle to URM students’ success. The list should include, but should not be limited to: ● A list of fellowships available for undergraduate students. ● A list of funding sources for undergraduate research. ● A list of REUs for URM. ● Examples of successful applications to the aforementioned programs.● Different organizations and communities advocating for URM in physics and/or STEM fields. ● A formal process for undergrads to apply for research in the department. 8. Commit to uplifting physicists of color within our department and the greater academic community: ● Highlight accomplishments of scholars of color within Physics, e.g. at the first tea each academic year, in the department newsletter, and as a hallway display on the first floor of each of the physics buildings. ● Invite Black speakers to give Berkeley Physics lectures and colloquia (including the 290 series, Oppenheimer lecture, etc.), including but not limited to speakers from HBCUs. 9. By August 2021, create mandatory anti-racist trainings and workshops for faculty, staff and students, e.g. by consulting with the Centers for Educational Justice and Student Engagement; attending this upcoming APS equity and inclusion webinar (June 24th); and reading Wheaton College’s guide to Becoming an Anti-Racist Educator. 10. Compose a formal statement addressed to the Chancellor advocating for the disarmament and demilitarization of UCPD and BPD by August 1, 2020. 11. With undergraduate and graduate student input, create a required intersectional justice, ethics, and history course for majors and graduate students in the department no later than Fall 2022. 12. Before August 1, 2020, hold a department meeting which is mandatory for all faculty, and open to staff, postdocs, graduate students, and undergraduate students, to discuss the contents of the TEAM-UP report, as well as the implementation of the demands in this letter and the accompanying full action plan. Every member of our department, from undergraduate to Chair, is responsible for actively working towards the dismantlement of systemic racism and anti-Blackness in academia. This document, as well as the full action plan, focuses on the action items that must be initiated by the leadership of our department. We, the undersigned, look forward to working with the department for each step of this long-overdue process, the importance of which cannot be overstated. We thank you for reading this letter and for beginning this conversation with us. Signed, Foregrounding the contributions of the students of color committee, and then followed by other community members in alphabetical order: Jessica Avva (Graduate student) Milo Buitrago-Casas (Graduate student)Jeske Dioquino (Graduate student) Cesar Gonzalez Renteria (Graduate student) Nicole Greene (Graduate student) Shannon Haley (Graduate student) Donez Horton-Bailey (Graduate student) Aashrita Mangu (Graduate student) Madeline Monroy (Graduate student) Vikram Nagarajan (Graduate student) Andrés Franco Valiente (Graduate student) Tianrui Xu (Graduate student) Victoria Xu (Graduate student) Adrianne Zhong (Graduate student) Caytyn Abono (Undergraduate student) David Abramovitch (Undergraduate student) Tylor Adkins (Graduate student) Isabel Aguilar (Undergraduate student) Burhan Ahmed (Graduate student) Kamphol Akkaravarawong (Graduate student) Alberto Alonso (Postdoc) Sulaiman Alvi (Undergraduate student) Jeremy Axelrod (Graduate student) Samuel Badman (Graduate student) Raphael Baer-Way (Undergraduate student) Vamshi Balanaga (Undergraduate student) Ella Banyas (Graduate student) Jacqueline Beechert (Graduate student) Maya Berlin-Udi (Graduate student) Madeline Bernstein (Graduate student) Prabudhya Bhattacharyya (Graduate student) Andreas Biekert (Graduate student) Marcus Bintz (Graduate student) Charles Brown (Postdoc) Micah Brush (Graduate student) Newton Cheng (Graduate student) Samuel Ciocys (Graduate student) Taylor Cookmeyer (Graduate student) Lance Corbett (Graduate student) Kayla Currier (Graduate student) Nicholas Dale (Graduate student) Mario D’Andrea (Graduate student) Stefan Divic (Graduate student) Sam Dixon (Graduate student)Elizabeth Donoway (Graduate student) Elizabeth Dresselhaus (Graduate student) James Egelhoff (Graduate student) Daniel Eilbott (Graduate student) Scott Eustice (Graduate student) Benjamin Foster (Graduate student) Stephen Gant (Graduate student) Daniel Gardeazabal (Graduate student) Claire Gasque (Graduate student) Sophia Gaynes (Undergraduate student) Neil Glikin (Graduate student) Eduardo Gonzalez (Undergraduate student) Eleanor Hall (Graduate student) Gwen Hanley (Graduate student) Elizabeth Hanson (Graduate student) Isaac Harris (Graduate student) Andrea Herman (Graduate student) Todd Hirtler (Undergraduate student) Emily Hollingworth (Graduate student) Valerie Hsieh (Undergraduate student) Nicholas Huang (Graduate student) Joshua A. Isaacs (Postdoc) Helia Kamal (Graduate student) Hannah Klion (Graduate student) Spencer Kofford (Undergraduate student) Samuel Kohn (Graduate student) Jon Kruppe (Graduate student) Daniel La Rocco (Undergraduate Student) Ella Lachman (Postdoc) Katie Latimer (Graduate student) Francisco Leal Machado (Graduate Student) Nathaniel Leslie (Graduate student) Sylvia Lewin (Graduate student) Jonathan Liu (Graduate student) Marie Lu (Graduate student) Sandra Lucero-Ramirez (Undergraduate student) Anasuya Lyons (Undergraduate student) Peter Madigan (Graduate student) Kush Maheshwari (Undergraduate Student) Nikola Maksimovic (Graduate student) Eran Maniv (Postdoc) Carl Marth (Graduate student) William McCormack (Graduate student)Robert McGehee (Graduate student) Gregory Meyer (Graduate student) Nishant Mishra (Undergraduate Student) Brad Mitchell (Graduate student) Shaunak Modak (Undergraduate Student) Thomas Mittiga (Graduate student) Sara Mouradian (Postdoc) Chitraang Murdia (Graduate student) Ravi Naik (Postdoc) Nathan Ng (Graduate student) Gregory Ottino (Graduate student) Zachary Pagel (Graduate student) Daniel Parker (Graduate student) Gabriel Perko-Engel (Undergraduate student) Elizabeth Peterson (Graduate student) Alejandro Pelcastre (Undergraduate student) Emma Regan (Graduate student) Neal Reynolds (Postdoc) Fatima Rodriguez (Undergraduate student) Josue Rodriguez (Graduate Student) Roger Roglans (Graduate student) Zachary Ross (Undergraduate Student) Ben Saarel (Graduate student) Noah Sailer (Graduate student) Michael Santos (Undergraduate student) Sai Neha Santpur (Graduate student) Thomas Schuster (Graduate student) Chirag Sharma (Undergraduate student) Jamie Simon (Graduate student) Ashwin Singh (Graduate student) Karthik Siva (Graduate student) Max Smiley (Graduate student) Conrad Stansbury (Graduate student) Vincent Su (Graduate Student) Susana Torres-Londono (Undergraduate student) Iqbal Utama (Graduate student) Vetri Velan (Graduate student) Kenneth Vetter (Graduate student) Hannah Weaver (Graduate student) Junwen Xiong (Graduate student) Winston Yin (Graduate student) Alexander Zibrov (Postdoc) Charlie Snell (Undergraduate student)Signatures of Department of Physics Faculty and Staf , in solidarity: James Analytis (Faculty) Carlos Bustamante (Staff) Kathleen Cooney (Staff) Barbara Jacak (Professor) Brett Laugtug (Staff) Simon Leaver-Appelman (Staff) Kathy Lee (Staff) Joelle Miles (Staff) Elizabeth Nakahama (Staff) Donna Sakima (Staff) Claudia Trujillo (Staff)
To the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, We are writing as a group to urge faculty, staff, affiliate scientists, and graduate students in AOS to make a tangible commitment to support the national movement to defend Black lives and foster an inclusive environment for underrepresented students and faculty. The purpose of this message is to highlight what we, as students, would like to see happen within the department in response to the brutal murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade, Tony Robinson and other Black men, women, queer, non-binary, and transgender folx at the hands of the police. As academics we must recognize that the systemic racism and white privilege “out in the world” is intertwined with what happens at UW-Madison and within our department. The boundary between what happens to students in the program and “in the world” is artificial. The field of geoscience is the least diverse STEM field, showing no progress towards increasing diversity in over 40 years. According to an article in Nature Geoscience, only 6% of geoscience doctorates awarded to US citizens and permanent residents in 2016 went to students from underrepresented minorities (URM), a group who made up 31% of the US population that year (including American Indian or Alaska Native, Black or African American, and Hispanic or Latinx).1 This lack of diversity not only prohibits achievement for people of color in higher education, butalso it allows implicit biases to prevail among White people and limits talent and discovery in our own discipline. We must take immediate actions to end systemic racism. We believe that our research must be actively engaged with and responsive to struggles for justice. Many of us are reflecting on what we can do. Being in our field ofatmospheric scienceand the implications it has on enhancing understanding of weather forecasting capabilitiesand climate change, we do not doubt that some may be comforted by the potential impact of our research and teaching. But, THIS IS NOT ENOUGH. The belief that research will save us is a reflection of privilege, a privilege that our Black and other minority students and faculty will never have as they navigate the halls of this department and the streets of our communities. Without concerted action to dismantle racist institutions and systems around us, academic work by itself will only serve to conservatize and distance the academy from the rest of the world. Without concerted action, the department will fail its Black and underrepresented students and faculty, and the communities it purports to serve. We are addressing the silence and the complacency of the department by identifying and acknowledging these issues within our department. A complacency not just limited to lack of diversity in the classrooms and offices, but also to all instances of discrimination, microaggression and non-inclusion that the students have shared and not shared. Weacknowledge the symbolic statements and gestures made by faculty, but this is not enough. We should use this as a starting point to more tangible action that positively improves the conditions facing students and faculty of color in the program. Therefore, the AOS graduate students have identified two key aspects that all of us in thedepartment should address: 1. INCREASE DIVERSITY IN THE DEPARTMENT and 2. BUILD A MORE INCLUSIVE ENVIRONMENT. For both items, we have outlined proposed actions for both the GSA and department to implement. I. Increase diversity within the department GSA actions: 1. Increase outreach committee initiatives In order to address the continuing lack of diversity in the geosciences, AOS GSA will make a conscious effort to implement outreach initiatives designed to encourage and empower students from underrepresented groups to enter STEM fields. Previous research has shown that collaborations between 4-year universities and 2-year community colleges or high schools have positive student outcomes, including encouraging students to transfer into or declare STEM majors at 4-year schools and creating a sense of inclusivity in research spaces.2 Asastep towards increasing diversity within the department, the GSA Outreach Committee will: ❏ Engage with local community colleges, which have much higher enrollment of underrepresented minorities compared to UW-Madison (approx. 20 % versus 10 %).3,4 ❏ Work with programs designed to prepare middle school and high school students for college (e.g. Boys and Girls Club of Dane County TOPS program). ❏ Work with programs designed to support underrepresented minority, low-income, or first generation students adjust to college (e.g. UW-Madison PEOPLE program). ❏ Provide diverse images and examples of professionals in atmospheric and oceanic science fields during presentations at outreach events. 2. Increase Welcome Committee initiatives Beyond outreach efforts, the GSA Welcome Committee will work to increase diversity within our own department. The Welcome Committee will commit to an increase in recruitment efforts that expand beyond traditional, predominantly White conferences and colleges to improve diversity within AOS. Furthermore, the Welcome Committee will increase communication and efforts post enrollment in the graduate program to help students get oriented and connected with resourcesand people within AOSS and the greater Madison area, helping foster a place of belonging to improve retention and quality of life among students. Efforts by the Welcome Committee will include: ❏ Have current graduate students recruit at conferences that highlight underrepresented students.❏ Provide diverse images and examples of members of the AOS department at recruitment events. Department actions: 1. Promote racial and social justice in hiring, grad admissions, and academic accommodations Issues of ethnic and racial diversity in the geosciences exist at every career stage, starting with undergraduate recruitment and ending with the hiring of tenure track faculty. As aresult, we need to rethink the ways that we currently approach diversity and allocate funds specifically for this purpose. We propose that the department: ❏ Redo or extend hiring/applicant pools until statistics for diversity are met. ❏ Provide scholarships, RA, and TA appointments designated for underrepresented students. ❏ Support collaborations with Madison College and offer summer internship opportunities for underrepresented minority students. ❏ Work with Greater University Tutoring Services (GUTS) or within the department to offer tutoring services (at minimum large lecture 100 level courses). 2. Partner with programs for historically underrepresented students in STEM There are a number of pre-existing undergraduateand graduate summer internship and bridge programs that find and enlist students of color and other minorities in STEM, some of which are already on the UW-Madison campus. Becoming a partner of these programs isan easy way to increase the diversity of our department and show our support. Such efforts that the department should make are: ❏ Join minority alliance program(s) for undergrads to host URM summer interns (e.g. WiscAMP, Posse STEM Program). ❏ Join minority fellowship program(s) for graduate students which recruits URM students and improves diversity in partner universities (e.g. National GEM Consortium). ❏ Continue membership of AGU Bridge Program. ❏ Work towards creating a department or joint-department summer Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program in the long-term.II. Building an inclusive environment GSA actions: 1. Ensure that incoming graduate students have a sense of belonging in the department. The GSA has recognized that we have not done enough to createan inclusive environment for incoming graduate students. It was brought to the more senior graduate students’ attention that incoming students did not feel engaged during last year’s Welcome Picnic. In addition, first year students who arrived in the Spring 2020 semester received no department-wide recognition. This made the first year students lack a sense of inclusivity within the graduate student cohort and AOS. We recognize that this is unacceptable. We will work towards creating an environment in which students feel seen and are given support that they need to succeed, which, while important for all students, is most vital for incoming URM who may already feel they do not belong. We propose to increase the responsibilities of the GSA Welcome Committee throughout the year to ensure a welcoming graduate student community for incoming students. The committee will: ❏ Make sure that all incoming students are promptly given the opportunity to join AOS graduate student online social groups. ❏ Have a team- or activity-oriented focused Welcome Picnic to begin engagement with faculty, current, and incoming graduate students. ❏ Hold a coffee hour or lunch with the new graduate students to see how they are transitioning to the new department and environment. ❏ Plan a welcome event for students who begin graduate school during the spring semester. 2. Ensure a continuing inclusive environment In addition to engaging incoming graduate students within the graduate student community, it is crucial that we increase our efforts in promoting an inclusive environment among all graduate students, and in particular with underrepresented students. Dutt (2020) makes the point: “Diversity and inclusion cannot exist without a sense of belonging. We need to acknowledge people’s identities for them to feel included. Focusing on diversity without inclusion makes marginalized groups feel that they merely serveasa diversity statistic,and that in reality their voices and experiences do not count.”5 Thus, providing asupport network will allow underrepresented students to freely express themselves and strive towards success. The GSA proposes to increase their inclusivity initiatives as follows:❏ Plan a graduate student weekend retreat in which students will participate in bias training and/or bonding activities. We request that the department provides funds for lodging, meals, and transportation during this retreat. ❏ Begin each GSA monthly meeting with icebreakers to ensure that graduate students engage with students that they may not talk with on a regular basis. ❏ Plan weekly inclusive social activities (i.e. not just going to bars). ❏ Plan a department-wide cultural orientation event to describe and explain cultural differences such as self-identity, interpersonal relationships, communication, and resolving conflicts. Such an event to initiate discussion on culture can be centered around students sharing traditional foods from their homes. Department actions: 1. Mandatory bias training at the beginning of the school year for all faculty, staff, affiliate scientists, and graduate students Although many of the action items presented in this document relate to increasing diversity within the department, it is important to make the distinction that if we aren’t fostering an environment that is supportive of the individuals being recruited, we will ultimately be unsuccessful. Within our own department, several individuals have shared their experiences with microaggressions and the negative impacts they’ve dealt with as an underrepresented minority. If we hope to not only attract, but also retain diverse faculty and students, we need to create an environment where individualsare both welcomed and able to thrive. In order for these efforts to succeed, we recommend that the department institute: ❏ Yearly mandatory training for faculty, staff, affiliate scientists, and graduate students, with a focus on addressing implicit or unconscious bias and bystander intervention. There are a variety of formats available for this training, including workshops hosted by UW-Madison’s Women in Science & Engineering Leadership Institute (WISELI), or working through materials made available by the NCAR and UCAR Equity and Inclusion office through UNEION 101, the introductory course in the UNEION bias, gender, race, and bystander intervention training series. ❏ Prior to attending training, individuals should assess their own implicit or unconscious biases through a self-quiz, such as the one offered through Project Implicit. ❏ Annual surveys should be conducted to assess our progress as a department towards creating an inclusive environment, as wellasallowing aspace for individuals to express concerns anonymously without fear of professional retribution. Links to resources mentioned in the first two bullet points can be found in the “Additional Resources and Reading” section.2. Statement of solidarity from department heads sent out to the department The Department needs to make clear its position on the racialand ethnic inequalities that exist in our disciplineand share its plan ofaction to effectively addressand resolve these issues going forward. We can no longer ignore the difficult conversations over discrimination, or we become complicit in systemic issues that benefit certain groups while restricting others. 3. Increased focus on the importance of outreach and mentorship Mentoring is a valuable strategy to provide all students with the support they need to succeed professionally. Specifically, mentoring URM students has been shown to drastically amplify success, with students being twice as likely to persist in their degree as non-mentored URM students, as well having higheraverage GPAs.6 Outreach isa key element in attracting a diverse student population, as well as an opportunity to expose underrepresented groups to STEM opportunities and foster early interest. Despite the demonstrated importance of outreach and mentorship, faculty are rarely rewarded for these activities, and incentive to engage is often intrinsic. The addition of the below elements will help remedy this while supporting a culture within AOS of giving back to our community, underscoring our commitment to the Wisconsin Idea. ❏ The Graduate Student Association (GSA) would like to recognize excellence in these areas with an annual outreach and mentorship award, given in conjunction with the newly formed Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Committee. ❏ Outreach and mentorship should be included as a mandatory requirement for both faculty and graduate students, with 5 hours required annually. 4. Increase diversity in Colloquium and Seminar talks Engaging speakers for colloquium and seminar talks from a more diverse pool will both increase representation as well as highlight the achievements of individuals belonging to marginalized groups. This means reevaluating the template used to invite speakers, and using recognition over recollection (ie the first people that come to mind tend to be those we have interacted with often or that are similar to ourselves). The Colloquium Committee will be responsible for the following changes: ❏ Increasing demographic of visiting professors: invite speakers from a range of career stages, a variety of institution levels (not just R1), and those with experience in different career paths (government, industry, non-profit). ❏ Increasing diversity of topics discussed in these talks (i.e. environmental justice, humanitarian impact of science like air quality, etc.).5. The Department will commit to weave equity and diversity in a classroom setting Classroom interactions are a large part of initial experiences with AOS, both as an undergraduate and graduate student. For graduate students, classes offer a chance to interact with students outside one’s research group. For undergraduates, classes provideaspace to meet fellow majors and learn about career opportunities. Adopting inclusive teaching techniques will help create a welcoming environment and foster a sense of belonging in general.7,8,9,10 Inclusive teaching will also help empower students to feel confident in the fields of atmospheric and oceanic sciences. ❏ Restructure syllabus to incorporate inclusive practices and language, including UW-Madison accommodations and resources available. ❏ Redesign curriculum to be inclusive, including an increase in diversity and equity in topics. ❏ Encourage faculty and TAs to adopt more active and group-based teaching practices, especially at the graduate level (600 level in particular). ❏ Require that faculty members take an inclusive teaching course through Delta or another program. ❏ Evaluate the results of an AOS diversity survey distributed by the Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Committeeat the end of each course,and make modifications to coursesas necessary. 6. Creation of a Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Committee To ensure that concrete efforts will be made to increase diversity, equity, and inclusion within AOS, we propose forming a committee that will enact the recommended action items outlined above. This committee will include faculty, graduate students, and undergraduate representatives. Recommended responsibilities of the committee include, but are not limited to, the following: ❏ Hold meetings at least twice a semester to evaluate current progress and determine what actions still need to be taken. ❏ Promote racial and social justice and equity in hiring and student admissions. ❏ Set up a department scholarship for URM students. ❏ Oversee that faculty and graduate students attend bias training and inclusive teaching workshops, and meet outreach requirements. ❏ Increase underrepresented minority graduate representation on departmental committees, such as the Colloquium and Faculty Hiring committees. ❏ Ensure that there is increased diversity in colloquium and seminar talks. ❏ Use one department seminar spot every semester to organize an activity or talk centered on diversity, equity, inclusion, and/or social justice within AOS/STEM.❏ Add a diversity, equity, and inclusion statement to the AOS website. This could include a list of resources/potential scholarships for minorities (bridge program from UW asa whole, AGU/AMS scholarships, etc.)and publicising ESWN, AMS Board on Women and Minorities, etc. ❏ Conduct an annual review of how the department is doing to meet these diversity and inclusion initiatives, such as an AOS diversity survey distributed to students in AOS courses at the end of the semester. Through the proposed action items outlined above, we hope to see an increased effort from the AOS department to support Black graduate studentsand faculty and other studentsand faculty of color. Our signatures below signify our commitment to increasing diversity and promoting equity and inclusivity within the department. Over the next few months and beyond, we look forward to continuing this conversation and following-up on the changes we want to see. The actions by AOS should not stop at inconsequential statements of support. We ask the department--graduate students, faculty, research affiliate, and administrative staff--to put action into symbolic gestures of solidarity. We will continue to pay attention to the action that our department takes. We look forward to your response, UW-Madison AOS Graduate Students Juliet Pilewskie Terence Pagano Jess Turner Brianne Andersen Ben Rodenkirch Anthony Crespo Jongjin Seo Jerrold Acdan Andrew Dzambo Alyson Douglas Julia Shates Anne Sledd Patrick Beaty Andrew Quigley Bailey Murphy Miguel Bernardez Zoë Brooke Zibton Alicia Hoffman Vijit Maithel Maria Madsen Nuo Chen Gesangyangji Maggie Bruckner Andi Muttaqin David Loveless David Mikolajczyk Karimar Ledesma-Maldonado Stephanie Bradshaw Taylor Norton Sreenath Paleri Kelton HalbertReferences 1. Bernard, R. & Cooperdock, E. No progress on diversity in 40 years. Nat. Geosci. 2018; 11. 10.1038/s41561-018-0116-6. 2. Hirst, R., Bolduc, G., Liotta, L., & Packard, B. Cultivating the STEM transfer pathway and capacity for research: A partnership between a community college and a 4-year college. Journal of College Science Teaching, 2014; 43(4): 12-17. 3. Madison Area Technical College Profile. Madison, WI. Community College Review. www.communitycollegereview.com/madison-area-technical-college-profile. Published 2014. Accessed June 15, 2020. 4. University of Wisconsin-Madison. Data USA. datausa.io/profile/university/university-of-wisconsin-madison. Published 2020. Accessed June 15, 2020. 5. Dutt, K. Race and racism in the geosciences. Nat. Geosci. 2020; 13: 2–3. 6. Coles, A. Research to Practice Brief: The Role Of Mentoring In College Access And Success. Institute for Higher Education Policy. https://www.liberalartscolleges.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/The-Role-of-Mentori ng-in-College-Access-and-Success.pdf. Accessed June 15, 2020. 7. Cabrera, A. F., Nora, A., Crissman, J. L., Terenzini, P. T., Bernal, E. M., & Pascarella, E. T. Collaborative learning: Its impact on college students’ development and diversity. Journal of College Student Development. 2002; 43(1): 20–34. 8. Larke, P. Culturally responsive teaching in higher education: What professors need to know. Counterpoints. 2013; 391: 38-50. 9. Sensoy, Ö., & DiAngelo, R. Respect differences? Challenging the common guidelines in social justice education. Democracy & Education. 2014; 22(2). 10. Scott, S., McGuire, J., & Shaw, S. Universal design for instruction: A new paradigm for adult instruction in postsecondary education. Remedial and Special Education. 2003; 24: 369-379.Additional Resources and Reading 1. Boys and Girls Club of Dane County: https://www.bgcdc.org/programs/school-based-programs 2. UW- Madison Precollege Enrichment Opportunity Program for Learning Excellence: https://peopleprogram.wisc.edu/ 3. WISELI ‘Breaking the Bias Habit’ workshop: https://wiseli.wisc.edu/workshops/bbh-inclusive-campus/ 4. UNEION 101 syllabus and materials: https://www.ucar.edu/who-we-are/diversity-inclusion/community-resources/uneion-101 5. Project Implicit: https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/takeatest.html 6. Trujillo, G. & K.D. Tanner. Considering the role of affect in learning: Monitoring students’ self-efficacy, sense of belonging, and science identity. Life Sciences Education. 2017; 13(1). https://doi.org/10.1187/cbe.13-12-0241
“If we were free, it would mean that everyone
else would have to be free since our freedom
would necessitate the destruction of all the
systems of oppression."

Combahee River Collective Statement, 1922

rhdARC

RISD Anti-Racism Coalition


Student Response Letter Jan. 2021

Departmental Communication Appendix

Short Guides External to the Grad Handbook that could be created:
1. Funding Options and Opportunities
a. Departmental Fellowships — Information for both grads and undergrads and
where to look for this information.
b. Paid Grad Positions
i. Seminar Speaker Coordinator, CSE Graduate Coordinator, Prospective
Graduate Visit Weekend Coordinator
ii. Amount paid for each, how to inquire about each position, and job
descnpﬂon.

2. List of Departmental Courses and How They are Offered (yearly/semesterly/by faculty
availability?) and List of Relevant Departments to Consider for Additional Course
Offerings

3. Department Committees and their Leaders.

a. How to get involved

4. Accounting Frequently Asked Questions

a. E.g., Reimbursements, P—Cards, etc.
Package Pickup and Shipping Guide
External Departments Relevant for Collaboration, Course Offerings, etc.
Field Camp Guide / Classes that require camping gear
Courses with Extra Fees
Student Fees Each Semester

a. Including what will be covered by the department or college and when.

$090.”???

15


Appendix 111. 2018—2019 racial and ethnic diversity among
employees in SOEST

Ed}
I Hawaii I US I SOEST
5D
4D
1—!
i:
El:I
E 313
El:I
D.
2D
1D I I I
White, alarm. Asian. alana Hi5 pania‘Latina Twa or Mara Black or African Native Amaliaan
not Hiapan is: at Rama American. Hawaiian. Gmar indian and
Latina alana Paciﬁc |5lantiar.ﬁ.laakan Native.
alana alana

Explanatory note: SOEST racial/ ethnic diversity data provided by MIRO (Manoa Institutional Research
Office). UH System—Wide data is available at IRO. The data used for this graph can be accessed lﬂ. If you have
questions about this graph contact: agajigan@hawaii.edu. This is employees data so it includes faculty, staff and
graduate students With GA/TA/RAship. We have yet to identify a source for undergraduate diversity. We
acknowledge that aggregating Asian as well as other “races” in one group is inherently problematic. For instance,

Asians are not monolithic but have unequal degrees of oppression.


Dear Director Kareiva of the Institute of the Environment and Sustainability,  We are upset, enraged, and exhausted from all that we’ve seen in the past two weeks. Black  students at UCLA are experiencing the collective trauma of the inequalities of COVID, the  economic crash, and the state of police brutality– some of these students are under your purview.  The murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Tony McDade and so many more  at the hand of police brutality are inexcusable. These murders represent the centuries of racism  and colonialism that perpetuate violence and stark inequities in our society. The mission statement of the Institute of the Environment and Sustainability is to “move science  to action on the front lines of environmental progress.” Yet any attempt at environmental progress  without first addressing the systemic oppression and inequities that are so deeply rooted in our  society will not bring about long-lasting change. Academia has a responsibility to address these  issues. The Institute prides itself in extending our research to benefit communities outside of the  ivory tower -- an endeavor that cannot be fulfilled until we strive fully to understand and address  the issues that the communities we work with face. However, if we do not fully understand or  address the issues the communities we work with face, we are doing them an extreme disservice  and actively contributing to their oppression. We are past the point of hoping for and talking about  change; we must take action now. We are strong in our conviction that Black Lives Matter. We received the IoES’s statement on the  above. We, too, offer our solidarity in the current movement and denounce racism in any form,  but words are simply not enough. We are frustrated that it took many days and a student email  before the IoES addressed the trauma that has been produced during the past two weeks. The lack  of accountability and reliable leadership from the Institute as a whole is not something new.  Students have expressed the Institute’s lack of reliability in research and class settings,  demonstrating that this is not an isolated instance but a part of a pattern. Danielle Hoague’s letter,  which was sent June 8th, demonstrates how harmful this lack of accountability and reliability can  truly be, and we stress our support for her powerful letter. These actions, or rather lack thereof,  have been attributed to being busy and having too many things on your plate. This is a poor excuse  in any setting, especially pertaining to the safety and active violence against students in the  Institute. We are angry and frustrated by the lack of diversity and racial climate of IoES. We are concerned  about the low morale, the program losing a fellow graduate student, the potential loss of more, and  the repeated rejection of highly qualified Black and underrepresented minority prospective  students from our program. Among the sea of solidarity messaging published in recent days have  been numerous statements from various members of the UCLA leadership. This talk may have  good intent, but words are not actions. We believe that the IoES can and must do better. We ask that you immediately address the following points in order for IoES to be a department we  want to remain a part of: 1. Support the immediate diversification of the graduate student body. Including  providing the option to transfer in Black and URM students who have applied  to IoES with funding and admitting Black and URM prospective students with  funding. 2. Get written input and approval from a committee of students and faculty from  under-represented groups before sending messages, organizing, or  fundraising on racial justice issues on behalf of the Institute.  3. Stop tokenism and the exploitation of race for fundraising, communication,  and photo opportunities.  4. Communicate solidarity and anti-racism messages first to undergraduates, graduate  students, staff, faculty, and alumni prior to sharing messages to the public or to  donors.  5. Add Black and Native members to the IoES advisory board. 6. Make a statement demanding that UCLA divest from the UC Police Department,  both in practice and with regards to funding, have leadership of IoES join the  newly-formed UCLA police divestment task force, and create an explicit IoES  safety and accountability policy that does not involve the UCP in any capacity.  7. Include anti-racism and environmental justice texts and discussions as a required  component of the undergraduate and graduate course curriculum (for example,  Issues and Methods). 8. Make public departmental ties with all outside organizations, all sources and  amounts of funding received by the Institute, and partner and donor commitments  to equity, inclusion and diversity, for transparency. 9. Mandate that faculty and staff and students participate in workshops that focus on  Equity, Inclusion and Diversity and anti-racism minimally once a year, with those  in leadership roles participating in additional training commensurate with their  degree of responsibility.  10. Improve racial diversity at all levels without alienating Black and Brown students  when they are admitted to IoES.  We also ask for specific commitments to: 1. Conduct an external review of the racial climate in IoES this summer, with  actionable findings. 2. Use of our social media presence, alumni network, and email listservs to amplify  Black voices that highlight and address inequities.3. Prioritize the use of Institute, university, board, and donor funding and resources to  diversify IoES leadership by hiring Black faculty. 4. Raise funds for fellowships specifically designated for Black students and  postdoctoral researchers.  5. Support and encourage equity, inclusion and diversity-focused research and  activities, including through the Environmental Justice Working Group and the  Center for Diverse Leadership in Science. 6. Create an external oversight commission to develop and adopt an Anti-Racism-In All-Policies approach that governs the full spectrum of investment, recruitment,  hiring, and other decisions made at the IoES 7. Support Black businesses, including using Black food vendors. 8. Make public the graduation rate and time to degree for all students broken down by  demographics.  9. Push for change and justice at the division and university level.  As signatories to this letter, we acknowledge that we find ourselves in a dynamic and quickly changing situation. We acknowledge that we have each been impacted in different ways, and that,  even with open dialogue, we cannot each fully know another’s experience with the racial climate.  We nevertheless offer this collection of thoughts, reflections, and demands as a group of students  who believe that communication, transparency, action, accountability, commitment, and tenacity  can and will bring about sorely needed shifts toward justice.  The Institute of the Environment and Sustainability serves as a model for interdisciplinary research  and is an entity that is looked to by other scientific and environmental institutions. Currently it  represents a model that perpetuates racism and therefore we must make addressing inequity a  priority. By doing so, we can serve as a model for others. As graduate students, we acknowledge  that action is going to require a joint effort from the Director, board, faculty, staff, and students  and we are committed to doing our part. Now we ask that you commit to doing yours.  Signed, Tanner Waters  2nd Year Ph.D Student Jessica Heckman 2nd Year Ph.D Student Emma Barnosky 2nd Year Ph.D Student Nickie Cammisa 3rd Year D.Env CandidateSonali Abraham  4th Year D.Env Candidate  Amanda Wagner 3rd Year D.Env Candidate  Lia Protopapadakis 5th Year D.Env Candidate Chase A. Niesner 2nd Year Ph.D Student  Antoine Kunsch Former 4th Year D.Env Candidate Yvonne Yock 2nd Year Ph.D Student Danielle Hoague 1st Year Ph.D. Student Will Krantz 2nd Year Ph.D Student Edith de Guzman 2nd Year Ph.D Student  Paul Stainier 1st Year Ph.D Student Robert Reny 1st Year D.Env Student Alexandria Herr Former 1st Year Ph.D. Student Regina Adigwe 1st Year D.Env Student Viraj Sawant 1st Year Ph.D Student Margaret Isied 1st Year D.Env Student 
POINT 6: CAREERS

The department must create more opportunities for students throughout the majors to see,
learn from, participate in professional photographic practice, whether fine art, fashion,
commercial or otherwise. This should include a larger number of studio visits, or
extra—curricular trips, conversations with artists, photo editors, curators, agency reps or other
figures in professional life.

The photography department must make a stronger connection with the RISD Careers

 

Center to create more opportunities geared directly towards students majoring in
Photography. The lack of professional development in the program leaves our students
disconnected from the industry as they graduate. The RISD Careers Center offers few resources
or solutions or opportunities for our students, and our alumni cannot bear the full responsibility
of creating professional experiences for our students on their own. The 21st—century
photographer is in need of many more tools under their belt, including the following:

Social Media training

Online portfolio/web design

Basics for running a business/studio
Etiquette for professional correspondence

1.
2.
3.
4
5. Grant writing and application training
6 Industry—standard editing techniques

7 Budgeting

8 Aesthetic development & personal branding
9

Understanding Image compilation & animation


/(77(5 72 7+( 5,6' 7(;7,/( '(3$570(17        ³6ODYH &ORWK´ PDQXIDFWXUHG DW RQH WKH +D]DUG¶V PLOOV LQ 5KRGH ,VODQG 7KHUH LV RQH P\WKLFDO KLVWRU\ RI 3URYLGHQFH WKDW LV ODXGHG  5RJHU :LOOLDPV DQG KLV IHOORZ 5KRGH ,VODQGHUV IUDPHG D FRORQ\ JRYHUQPHQW GHYRWHG WR SURWHFWLQJ LQGLYLGXDO ³OLEHUW\ RI FRQVFLHQFH´ DQG DOO ZDV µFRSDFHWLF¶ ZLWK WKH 1DWLYH $PHULFDQV  ³:KDW &KHHU ´ +RZHYHU  ZLWK WKH OHDVW SRVVLEOH HIIRUW D *RRJOH VHDUFK RI µ7H[WLOHV ¶ µ3URYLGHQFH ¶ µ6ODYHU\¶ WKHUH LV DQ DEXQGDQFH RI LQIRUPDWLRQ WKDW SRLQWV WR WKH FHQWUDO UROH 3URYLGHQFH SOD\HG LQ WKH $WODQWLF 6ODYH 7UDGH  5,6'¶V HDUOLHVW EHQHIDFWRUV ZHUH 7H[WLOH PDQXIDFWXUHUV DQG 5KRGH ,VODQG ZDV DW WKH IRUHIURQW RI WKH ,QGXVWULDO 5HYROXWLRQ ZLWK LWV SRZHU GULYHQ WH[WLOH PLOOV  7R OLYH LQ DQ HWHUQDO SUHVHQW DOORZV IRU D FROOHFWLYH DPQHVLD  7KH µVODYH FORWK¶ SLFWXUHG DERYH LV D SODLQ UHPLQGHU WKDW RXU SUHVHQW LV SUHPLVHG RQ D KLVWRU\ WKDW KDV \HW WR EH DFNQRZOHGJHG 1RW FRQIURQWLQJ ERWK WKH H[SOLFLW DQG LPSOLFLW KLVWRU\ DV D GHSDUWPHQW SHUSHWXDWHV D FXOWXUH RI µ:KLWH 6LOHQFH¶ DQG DOORZV WKH IDFXOW\ DQG VWDII WR DYRLG GRLQJ WKH QHFHVVDU\  FROOHFWLYH ZRUN  7KH 7H[WLOHV 'HSDUWPHQW KDV DQ RSSRUWXQLW\ WR EH FKDQJH OHDGHUV LQ FRQIURQWLQJ 5,6'¶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¶V &HQWHU IRU 6RFLDO (TXLW\ DQG ,QFOXVLRQ ZRUNVKRSV DUH LQ QR ZD\ VXIILFLHQW WR DIIHFW VXVWDLQHG DQG FRPSUHKHQVLYH FKDQJH ZLWKLQ WKH 'HSDUWPHQW DQG DPRQJVW WKH LQGLYLGXDO IDFXOW\  6\VWHPLF FKDQJH UHTXLUHV D ZLOOLQJQHVV WR SDUWLFLSDWH DV DQ LQWHUFRQQHFWHG JURXS  WR FRPPLW WR GHOLYHULQJ WKH HGXFDWLRQ DQG HQYLURQPHQW WKDW DOO VWXGHQWV GHVHUYH DQG WKDW FXUUHQWO\ RQO\ VRPH VWXGHQWV UHFHLYH  7KHUH LV D GHPDQG IRU FKDQJH DQG DFFRXQWDELOLW\ IURP FXUUHQW DQG IRUPHU VWXGHQWV WKDW PXVW EH DGGUHVVHG LPPHGLDWHO\  5,6' LV LQ D SUHFDULRXV DQG IUDJLOH SODFH EHFDXVH RI &29,'    DQG WKH GHSDUWPHQW LV GD\ E\ GD\ WU\LQJ WR ILQG IRRWLQJ XQGHU GLIILFXOW FLUFXPVWDQFHV  7KLV LV XQGHUVWRRG  7KDW VDLG  WKH SDQGHPLF KDV WUXO\ ODLG EDUH WKH UHDOLW\ RI UDFLVP DQG LQHTXLW\ IRU %ODFN SHRSOH  7KH 7H[WLOHV 'HSDUWPHQW QHHGV WR SULRULWL]H WKLV FRPPLWPHQW WR FKDQJH  WR IRFXV VROHO\ RQ RQH DUHD RI YXOQHUDELOLW\ EURXJKW RQ E\ WKH SDQGHPLF LV QRW HQRXJK  7KLV GRFXPHQW JDWKHUV UHFHQW FRPPHQWV IURP VRFLDO PHGLD DQG SULYDWH PHVVDJHV DQG KDV EHHQ YHWWHG E\ WKHVH VDPH VWXGHQWV DQG DOXPQL  WKLV GRFXPHQW ZLVKHV WR XSKROG D WUDQVSDUHQF\ WKDW KHOSV IRVWHU WKH QHFHVVDU\ JURZWK  WUXWK WHOOLQJ DQG ZRUN WKDW VWLOO QHHGV WR EH GRQH  7KH WLPH DQG HQHUJ\ VWXGHQWV KDYH VSHQW WKLV ZHHN HQJDJLQJ LQ GLDORJXH ZLWK IDFXOW\ FDQ QRW EH VTXDQGHUHG  7KH 'HSDUWPHQW LV HIIHFWLYHO\ SDUHQWLI\LQJ WKHVH VWXGHQWV E\ LJQRULQJ LQGLYLGXDO DQG V\VWHPLF LVVXHV RQ D GHSDUWPHQWDO OHYHO DQG SODFLQJ WKH RQXV RQ WKH VWXGHQWV WR VSHDN XS  6WDII DQG IDFXOW\ DUH QRW IXOILOOLQJ RXU REOLJDWLRQ DV HGXFDWRUV E\ DVNLQJ WKH VWXGHQWV WR HGXFDWH XV DERXW %ODFN FXOWXUH DQG GHVLJQ DQG WKHQ FRPSRXQGLQJ WKLV IDLOLQJ E\ QRW EHLQJ DEOH WR FULWLTXH WKHLU ZRUN HIIHFWLYHO\  ,W KDV EHHQ VWDWHG PXOWLSOH WLPHV WKDW FRQVWUXFWLYH DQG KRQHVW IHHGEDFN LQ HYDOXDWLRQV KDV QRW EHHQ DGGUHVVHG LQ D PDQQHU WKDW FRXOG¶YH SUHYHQWHG VXFFHVVLYH VWXGHQWV IURP VKRXOGHULQJ WKHVH EXUGHQV  :H KDYH SHUSHWXDWHG DQ HQYLURQPHQW ZKHUH VWXGHQWV GR QRW IHHO WKH\ FDQ VSHDN XS HIIHFWLYHO\ RU VDIHO\  :H KDYH QRW SURSHUO\ SURWHFWHG WKH VWXGHQWV IURP RYHUW RU FRYHUW DQWL EODFN UDFLVP IURP WKHLU SHHUV RU IDFXOW\ :H GHPDQG DQWL RSSUHVVLRQ WUDLQLQJ IRU WKH HQWLUH GHSDUWPHQW ZLWK IXOO  PDQGDWRU\ SDUWLFLSDWLRQ  6HFRQGO\  WKH IDFXOW\ HYDOXDWLRQ SURFHVV QHHGV WR FKDQJH  )ROORZ XS SURFHGXUHV QHHG WR EH UHYLVHG LQ RUGHU WR GHPRQVWUDWH WR RWKHU VWXGHQWV WKDW YRLFHV DUH EHLQJ KHDUG DQG WKHVH LVVXHV DUH EHLQJ GHDOW ZLWK LQ D ZD\ WKDW SUHYHQWV DOO VWXGHQWV IURP EHLQJ GLVPLVVHG RU IXUWKHU KDUPHG  7KH IROORZLQJ OLVW ZDV FRPSLOHG DQG HGLWHG 
ZLWK DSSURYDO  IURP 5,6' 7H[WLOHV VWXGHQW DQG DOXPQL FRPPHQWDU\ DQG SULYDWH PHVVDJHV IROORZLQJ WKH 5,6' 7(;7,/(6 ,QVWDJUDP DFFRXQW SRVW      7KH ,QVWDJUDP SRVW ZDV ZULWWHQ E\ *LQD DQG SRVWHG DIWHU FRQVXOWDWLRQ ZLWK $QDLV  Ɣ 7KHUH LV QRW D GHSDUWPHQWDO FXOWXUH RI VROLGDULW\ UHJDUGLQJ LVVXHV RI DQWL %ODFNQHVV DQG UDFLVP  Ɣ 7KHUH LV D FXOWXUH RI ERWK VXEWOH DQG RYHUW DQWL %ODFNQHVV WKDW QRQ %ODFN VWXGHQWV DQG IDFXOW\ GRQW UHDOO\ GR PXFK WR FRPEDW  ,I DQ\WKLQJ LWV UHLQIRUFHG DV %ODFN VWXGHQWV IHDU UHWDOLDWLRQ DV D FRQVHTXHQFH RI WKH ZKLWH IUDJLOLW\ RI LQGLYLGXDO IDFXOW\ IRU VSHDNLQJ RXW DERXW WKLV  Ɣ 7KHUH LV DQ LQWHQVH HUDVXUH RI %ODFN DQG ,QGLJHRXV 7H[WLOH WUDGLWLRQV Ɣ &XUULFXOD LV SULPDULO\ IRXQGHG RQ (XURSHDQ 7H[WLOH WUDGLWLRQV DQG RFFDVLRQDOO\ VRPH (DVW $VLDQ DQG ,QGLDQ WUDGLWLRQV Ɣ $ FRXUVH LQ WKH +LVWRU\ RI 7H[WLOHV LV QRW UHTXLUHG Ɣ 7KHUH KDV QHYHU EHHQ DQ\ KLVWRULFDO DQDO\VLV RU HYHQ DQ\ PHQWLRQ RI WKH UROH WKDW WKH 5KRGH ,VODQG 7H[WLOH LQGXVWU\ SOD\HG LQ WKH $WODQWLF VODYH WUDGH LQ DQ\ RI P\ FODVVHV LQFOXGLQJ RQHV WDNHQ RQ WKH +LVWRU\ RI 7H[WLOHV  Ɣ 7KHUH DUH QRW 
QRU KDYH WKHUH EHHQ LQ NQRZQ KLVWRU\  DQ\ %ODFN IDFXOW\ Ɣ 7KH GHSDUWPHQW FRQVLVWV DOPRVW H[FOXVLYHO\ RI ZKLWH RU ZKLWH SDVVLQJ IDFXOW\ PHPEHUV Ɣ 6WXGHQWV DUH QRW SURGXFWLYHO\ LQFOXGHG LQ WKH YHWWLQJ RI SRWHQWLDO KLUHV Ɣ 5HJDUGLQJ IDFXOW\  FXUULFXOXP  DQG KHDOWK  ż ³,PDJLQH WKLV ZDV KDSSHQLQJ ZKHQ WKHUH ZDVQ¶W D SDQGHPLF  %ODFN VWXGHQWV ZRXOG EH H[SHFWHG WR ODERU ZKLOH FDUU\LQJ WKH EXUGHQ RI VWDWH VDQFWLRQHG YLROHQFH XSRQ RXU ERGLHV  ZHDYLQJ DQG NQLWWLQJ LQWR GDZQ ´ ż ³7KH FXOWXUH RI WKH ODERU LV DOVR DQWL %ODFN  7R WKHQ EH IHG DUWLVWV DQG UHIHUHQFHV XSKROGLQJ WKH LYRU\ WRZHU VLWV XSRQ ´ ż ³6RPH VWXGHQWV ZRUN MXVW WR KDYH PRQH\ IRU VFKRRO ZKLOH RWKHUV PD\ VLPSO\ GHYRWH WKHPVHOYHV WR WKHLU ZRUN ´ Ɣ 7KHUH LV D ORZ HQUROOPHQW RI %ODFN VWXGHQWV LQ WKH 'HSDUWPHQW  Ɣ 7KHUH LV DQ H[SHULHQFH RI EHLQJ WKH RQO\ RU   RI   %,32& LQ DOO WKHLU FODVVHV  DQG IHHOLQJ D OD\HU RI GLVFRPIRUW LQ QRW EHLQJ XVHG WR DWWHQGLQJ ZKLWH FODVVHV DQG FULWV      IRU   \HDUVƔ 7KH 'HSDUWPHQW GRHV QRW WDNH VWXGHQW FRQFHUQV VHULRXVO\ DERXW IDFXOW\ ZKR FRQVLVWHQWO\ VKRZ WKHLU UDFLVW DQG PLFUR DJJUHVVLYH EHKDYLRU  7KH FRPPHQWDU\ RXWOLQLQJ WKLV LQ VWXGHQW HYDOXDWLRQV LV QRW WDNHQ VHULRXVO\ DQG DFWHG XSRQ  Ɣ 3URIHVVRUV LQ WKH 7H[WLOHV 'HSDUWPHQW GR QRW KDYH WKH FULWLFDO FDSDFLW\ WR HQJDJH ZLWK RU DGYLVH %ODFN VWXGHQWV DURXQG WKHLU ZRUN  7KLV RIWHQ UHVXOWV LQ FULWLTXHV LQ ZKLFK QHLWKHU VWXGHQWV RU SURIHVVRUV DUH SUHSDUHG WR JLYH FULWLFDO IHHGEDFN RU WKH\ JLYH ERULQJ DGYLFH DURXQG KRZ WR PDNH \RXU ZRUN PRUH DFFHVVLEOH WR D ZKLWH DXGLHQFH  Ɣ 6WXGHQW ZRUN KDV EHHQ UHIHUUHG WR DV µSULPLWLYH¶ RQ PXOWLSOH RFFDVLRQV  :KHQ DOHUWHG  WKH 'HSDUWPHQW KDV QRW DFNQRZOHGJHG RU DFWHG XSRQ WKLV HIIHFWLYHO\  Ɣ 6WXGHQWV DUH SURPSWHG WR SDUWLFLSDWH LQ µVRFLDO LVVXH¶ EDVHG DVVLJQPHQWV UHVXOWLQJ LQ VWXGHQWV SHUIRUPLQJ HPRWLRQDO DQG XQSDLG ODERU  WHDFKLQJ PDQ\ SURIHVVRUV DERXW %ODFN  ,QGLJHQRXV  DQG /DWLQ[ WH[WLOH KLVWRULHV DQG FRQWHPSRUDU\ DUWLVWV  7KLV ZLWKRXW WKH SURIHVVRUV GRLQJ WKH ZRUN WR UHVHDUFK DQG XQGHUVWDQG WKH FRQWH[W RU KLVWRU\ LQ RUGHU WR HIIHFWLYHO\ UHVSRQG WR WKH VWXGHQWV¶ ZRUN  7KH VWXGHQW LV WKHQ IRUFHG WR UHOLYH WUDXPD DQG HQGXUH FULWLTXH WKDW VD\V WKDW ³WKHLU ZRUN GRHVQ¶W GLVSOD\ WKHLU WUDXPD ZHOO HQRXJK ´ Ɣ 7KH 7H[WLOHV 'HSDUWPHQW GRHV QRW IDFLOLWDWH WKH QHFHVVDU\ FRQYHUVDWLRQV ZLWK $IUR 'LDVSRULF ZRUN DQG LQYDOLGDWHV LW FRQVWDQWO\ Ɣ 0DQ\ QRQ ZKLWH DOXPQL DQG VWXGHQWV DUH QRW FRPIRUWDEOH VSHDNLQJ XS  RU MXVW JDYH XS WU\LQJ Ɣ ³:KHQ , ZDV D VWXGHQW , RQO\ KHDUG DERXW WKH EXVLQHVV GHVLJQ LQGXVWU\ VLGH RI WH[WLOHV  µ7KHUH DUH VR PDQ\ DQWLFDSLWDOLVW EHDXWLIXO DVSHFWV RI WH[WLOHV  DQG VSLULWXDO SUDFWLFHV ZLWK WH[WLOHV  ,Q ULWXDO DQG LWV KLVWRU\  ,Q OLIH DQG DIWHUOLIH  :H DUH FRQQHFWHG LQ SDVVLQJ WKURXJK WKRVH KDOOV  , ORYH EHLQJ DQ DOXPQL LQ SDUW  %XW WKRVH KDOOV DUH ILOOHG ZLWK FRORQLDO JKRVWV WRR  WKDW DUH YHU\ KHDY\ IRU VRPH  WRR ´µ *LQD *UHJRULR 6HQLRU &ULWLF 5,6' 7H[WLOHV -LP 'UDLQ &ULWLF 5,6' 7H[WLOHV
9/28/2020 Gmail - How we are Rising to the Challenge Rae Spriggs <spriggsrae@gmail.com> How we are Rising to the Challenge 1 message Chancellor Gene D. Block and Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Emily A. Carte <chancellor@ucla.edu> To: rspriggs@g.ucla.edu Office of the Chancellor Office of the Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Dear Bruin Community: Mon, Sep 28, 2020 at 10:39 AM This summer has been a time of introspection and rededication as people and institutions across the United States have wrestled with how to address structural and other forms of racism. Last week’s decision in the Breonna Taylor case, and the anguish it has caused, reminds us of the need for meaningful change throughout our society. At UCLA, building on the efforts of many across campus who have spent years working towards racial equity, we have been taking a number of actions to ensure that our institution actively confronts racism, discrimination and bias and that we welcome, support, protect and value every member of our Bruin family. While some of these recent efforts are campuswide initiatives, we are proud and grateful to see so many UCLA units and schools heed this call to bring about change at a more local level. For instance, the UCLA Health System’s leaders are holding monthly conversations about racial equity to engage the entire organization in open dialogue. The David Geffen School of Medicine has developed an institutional anti racism roadmap. The Anderson School of Management is reworking its curriculum to reflect greater diversity in course materials and speakers while the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science is joining UCLA College’s Division of Life Sciences in utilizing a Mentor Professor Program to recruit faculty who are both outstanding in their fields and have a record of providing support to students from underrepresented groups. The UCLA Alumni Association is creating anti-racism and allyship trainings for UCLA graduates. We are encouraged by the work of so many who have sought to identify and meet these needs within their communities. In June, we announced a number of central campus initiatives designed to advance equity across UCLA and to nurture an environment that honors the lives, intellect, experience and aspirations of Black Bruins in particular. These efforts are core to UCLA’s mission and we write today to share some of the progress we have made and some of the new initiatives we are undertaking. Establishing a Black Resource Center for students in the center of campus. Set to launch this fall, the new Black Resource Center will have full-time professional staff and will provide resources to support the high caliber of Black student learning, development and scholarship at UCLA. The center will offer services remotely this term while the physical space is developed. Student Affairs is collaborating closely with students on the center’s programmatic design.https://mail.google.com/mail/u/1?ik=5d0c1665ec&view=pt&search=all&permthid=thread-f%3A1679100537800981360&simpl=msg-f%3A1679100537800981360 1/3 9/28/2020 Gmail - How we are Rising to the Challenge Expanding the intellectual community devoted to Black life and racial equity. We have begun the first round of a five-year initiative to hire new faculty whose scholarly work, teaching and/or mentoring relates to Black experience. The Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies, which is administering this effort, has appointed a faculty hiring committee with representation from both north and south campus. We expect to conduct two tenure-track searches at the assistant professor rank this academic year. A call for letters of interest was sent to department and program chairs and is due October 2, 2020. The Bunche Center will also support five UCLA Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellows across a broad set of academic disciplines through the UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program. The first cohort will begin in 2021-22, with a possibility of renewal for a second year. Fellowship applications are due through the program’s web site by November 1, 2020. Finally, beginning in 2021, the Bunche Center will facilitate awarding 10 summer graduate fellowships for research, teaching and service tied to Black life. Prospective and current graduate students from across the disciplines will be encouraged to apply. The program commitment is for five years, with potential renewal of the program upon review. The application window will open this winter. Creating a director of development position to maximize philanthropic support for Black life, teaching and research. The search process is underway for a development professional who will collaborate with departments and programs across campus to develop a cohesive fundraising strategy and leverage partnerships to support Black excellence at UCLA. Establishing the Civil Rights Office within the Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion. Once in place, the Civil Rights Office will coordinate all civil rights investigations involving faculty and staff and will be a leader in preventing discrimination on campus. A search is currently underway to fill the new position of assistant vice chancellor for civil rights. Launching the Campus Honorary Naming Advisory Committee. Composed of a broad set of campus stakeholders, this new committee will conduct a review of buildings and other physical spaces with generic names on the UCLA campus, and make recommendations for how we might name certain such spaces after deserving individuals and groups from UCLA’s history. Those we honor in this fashion will reflect the diversity of our institution. The committee will also develop a process by which our community can consider whether there currently exist structures or spaces whose names are not in keeping with UCLA’s core values. Dedicating additional resources in the Office of Strategic Communications to further amplify the contributions of students, faculty and staff of color as well as others in our Bruin family who are working to challenge racism and structural inequality. We are enhancing efforts to seek out and create compelling ways to share these stories and shine a light on the experiences of communities of color at UCLA. While in June we announced an effort to examine and improve campus safety operations, we heard from many in our community a desire for a different structure and charge related to this work. We are convening conversations with students, faculty, staff and alumni to develop a new process and timeline for how we ensure that our public safety operations are always aligned with our values of equity, diversity and inclusion. This new process will better account for the range of perspectives that exist on how we can protect our community fairly and without bias or discrimination. Additionally, as previously announced, we recently appointed Professor Vickie Mays as special advisor to the chancellor on Black life. A distinguished professor and former Academic Senate chair with deep ties to the university, Professor Mays will play a key role in helping our campus understand and address the concerns of Black students, faculty and staff. She will provide advice and recommendations to senior leadership on issues related to Black life, create new opportunities for dialogue and help build infrastructure to aid our work in support of the Black community. Finally, we are delighted that Anna Spain Bradley has joined UCLA’s leadership team as our new vice chancellor for equity, diversity and inclusion. A lawyer, mediator and scholar of racism andhttps://mail.google.com/mail/u/1?ik=5d0c1665ec&view=pt&search=all&permthid=thread-f%3A1679100537800981360&simpl=msg-f%3A1679100537800981360 2/3 9/28/2020 Gmail - How we are Rising to the Challenge human rights law, Vice Chancellor Spain Bradley’s work will include high-level coordination of campuswide diversity initiatives; strategic planning; research and education; training and compliance; and partnering with other senior leaders to ensure that UCLA is a welcoming, supportive and equitable place for all of our students, faculty and staff. In the months ahead, building on the suggestions from and in partnership with Bruins throughout our community, we will continue to advance these and other racial justice initiatives. For us to truly serve our public mission, UCLA must be a place that respects and empowers all Bruins and that works to overcome anti-Blackness and other manifestations of racism throughout society. We will remain vigilant in pursuing these goals. Sincerely, Gene D. Block Chancellor Emily A. Carter Executive Vice Chancellor and Provosthttps://mail.google.com/mail/u/1?ik=5d0c1665ec&view=pt&search=all&permthid=thread-f%3A1679100537800981360&simpl=msg-f%3A1679100537800981360 3/3 
Dear Dr. Ducey and the faculty and staff of the UNH Department of Natural Resources and the Environment,Before addressing the concerns in this letter, it is important to acknowledge the land we occupy, using guidance of . As scholars and researchers of the natural world, it is of particular importance to honor the lands and waters on which we learn and conduct research. UNH is located on N’dakinna (homeland), the ancestral and current homeland of the Abenaki, Pennacook, and Wabanaki  (People of the Dawnland). UNH is located within the Peskategwa  (branched river with fast-flowing waters). We acknowledge and honor with gratitude the land, waterways and the alnobak (people) who have stewarded N’dakinna throughout the generations. These peoples currently lack federal recognition or rights to this continually unceded land which was stolen centuries ago and is perpetually denied return. The recent killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and countless others have reignited a conversation about systemic racism and the injustices faced by Black people in the United States. This has been accompanied by the renewed awareness of the ways that Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) face . This results in lower representation and retention of BIPOC in STEM fields. Our intent in writing this letter is to increase the frequency and urgency of conversations surrounding diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) within our department and at UNH. Across 17 environmental disciplines, a  of US faculty showed only 11% representation of racial minorities, with the majority of departments reporting having one or zero faculty of color. Similarly, STEM employment statistics  list environmental scientists, geoscientists, and conservation scientists and foresters among the bottom three occupational groupings in terms of non-white representation, . This lack of representation of BIPOC in STEM fields and academic departments is not surprising given that traditional environmental science curricula are often white-focused, . Lastly,  has shown that diverse teams are more innovative and effective than homogenous teams, underscoring the importance of prioritizing structural inclusion and support for BIPOC faculty, staff, and students, as well as those from other marginalized groups. As a department that is largely white, we have a lot of listening, learning, and acting to do. We acknowledge that developing appropriate and effective short and long term goals and action items will take time and will evolve as we continue to learn. For this reason, one of our top priorities is to assist with the formation of an NREN DEI Committee that involves representation from students, faculty, and staff who will continue this important work and hold our department, college, and university accountable. Many members of the NREN department have already shown their commitment to working towards becoming more inclusive through existing efforts and new conversations involving ideas for the future. We look forward to collaborating with faculty to motivate and organize change within our department. While this letter is focused specifically on racial diversity, many of the actions will inherently benefit other Under-Represented Minorities (URMs) such as international, immigrant, low-income, first-generation, and LGBTQ+ students, staff, postdoctoral scholars, and faculty. Below, we outline recommendations for change under two main categories: training and department culture, and teaching.TEACHINGDiversify curriculum: Experiences described by students of color highlight important issues in environmental science programs that need to be addressed.  found that both whites and non-whites generally associate the term “environmentalist” with a white face, and underestimate environmental concerns held by racial minorities. However, all minority groups surveyed (African Americans, Latinxs, Asians, and Native Americas) self-reported higher concern for environmental issues than white people, despite being perceived as least concerned (). So, if there is so much interest, why is our field still so white?  that Black students, specifically, don’t pursue environmental science due to a lack of acknowledgement within the curriculum of environmental issues that are pertinent to communities of color (). Diversifying our curriculum is a crucial first step in making natural resources and environmental sciences welcoming to students of diverse backgrounds and perspectives. While improving syllabi to restructure curriculum in a way that successfully encompasses and encourages diverse perspectives may take time, there are easy places to start with any class:Include literature from diverse voices. Shift conversations from only talking about the science to including conversations about the author (e.g. what are their research interests more broadly? Who are they and how did they get to where they are?). By including conversations about the scientist, students who share identities with that scientist may be able to see themselves in that role.  Have conversations about land history and . Include conversations around environmental justice and intersectionality (see ).Revamp NR903: NR903 is the foundational course for incoming NREN graduate students. The structure and content of the course has undergone many changes and improvements, yet there remain inconsistencies in the curriculum preventing NR903 from fully meeting its and providing students with knowledge and skills necessary to succeed in academia. We propose the following additions be made to help the course better meet its description and provide students with a more comprehensive education. This should include: A history of the foundation and evolution of academia and research practices, with a focus on environmental fields. We need to acknowledge that academia was built by and for white men, and that this structure impacts academics today (see  and ).Ethics of research in outside communities, including history of  and . This unit will cover , including considerations for international locations and indigenous communities. Current issues faced by environmental fields in academia (DEI initiatives, funding, outreach/collaboration) and public policy. Syllabus statementsSyllabus sections which present student resources (mental health, learning accommodation, etc.) are often skipped over when verbally introducing the syllabus. To express full support for these aspects of the student's success, we ask that instructors verbally explain these sections, and accompany their expressed support with due research on the processes, barriers, and additional resources for students. Include sections within the course syllabus which explicitly state that discrimination and microagression , and provide resources for reporting such incidences. Within the statement, include  and  for reporting.TRAINING & CULTUREFormation of NREN DEI Committee: We are aware that there have been conversations and work towards creation of a DEI committee within our department. We are excited to hear of these efforts and write to underscore the importance of getting this committee formed as soon as possible, with participation from pre- and post-tenure faculty, staff, graduate students, postdoctoral scholars, and undergraduate students. This committee should be responsible for helping execute our recommendations, holding the department accountable for short- and long-term change, and for continuing to improve DEI efforts as the committee and department continue to learn. The committee shall report updates at each faculty meeting, and we expect significant collaboration with efforts on the COLSA DEI committee. An effective committee will prioritize enacting structural change to support department efforts at the college and university levels. We believe the NREN DEI committee will centralize and accelerate ongoing DEI efforts while bringing in perspectives from members of the department at all levels.Facilitated discussion on race and racism for department members: When leading DEI initiatives, there is often a disproportionate amount of labor expected of People of Color to . This labor is typically . Facilitated discussions, like those led by the  and  throughout Summer 2020, serve as a place to help offset some of that labor by providing a space for white colleagues to “do their own work” on interrogating their privilege and biases, and understanding how they benefit from the inequities of systemic racism. We ask for a series of compensated and intentionally facilitated discussions for the DEI committee and all department members, which will be scheduled within the first active month of the committee, to be completed by the end of the semester. These processing sessions would provide a basis of understanding and openness from which the DEI committee and other members of the department can work. Training: In addition to facilitated discussions, we ask that our department require annual implicit bias training for all members of the department (faculty, staff, and graduate students). We recommend that the department promote multiple types of bias training including, and other similar or training designed to initiate discussion on the way unconscious bias pervades workplace culture and provide strategies for developing more inclusive policies, language, and approaches. Providing multiple training opportunities has been shown to be more at making lasting changes with respect to issues of bias, enables members of the department to select the type of training they are most interested in, and allows training to occur annually. The NREN DEI committee should be responsible for determining the appropriate bias and related trainings and monitor their success. These trainings could fit into the structure of annual faculty meetings, graduate student trainings through the Graduate School or the NREN Graduate Program, and the mission of the . Mentorship: We can make mentoring a key mission of the department by shifting from ad hoc mentorship toward a for undergraduate and graduate students, postdocs and junior faculty. Mentors provide guidance, feedback, and support and are effective advocates for the career of their mentee at all levels of academia. We recommend that faculty mentors complete mentorship training through the which provides customizable training for the mentors of undergraduate and graduate students, postdocs, and junior faculty. Intentional mentorship and support through collective group mentoring or mentoring networks will help students, postdocs, and faculty navigate invalidating experiences in academia and verify their belonging in STEM. should include senior faculty-to-junior faculty, faculty-to-graduate-student, peer mentoring (e.g. PhD candidates mentor 1st year students), and near-peer mentoring (e.g. postdoctoral scholars mentor PhD and M.S. students). Moving beyond the hierarchy of the lab not only provides the opportunity for meeting the needs of the mentee but can help remove the power differentials associated with the PI to graduate student relationship. Equitable and effective mentorship for BIPOC and students from underrepresented groups enhances their and. We request the establishment of formal faculty, postdoc, graduate student, and undergraduate student mentoring programs that employ multi-mentor networks. Revamp graduate student expectations and lab practices: Starting graduate school can be daunting. New students may be joining a research group for the first time, and faced with more independence than ever before. As a department, we can use clear language to communicate our expectations and values with those who are joining us, and thinking of joining us. The creation of the NREN Graduate Student Mentoring Compact is clear progress in this realm. We suggest that each lab reflect on and discuss its mission and practices, both explicit and implicit.  would be a great article for all lab members to read. Recruitment and retention of BIPOC students and faculty: The enthusiasm and willingness of our department to make progress on DEI is necessary to effectuate change. We acknowledge that achieving equal representation of BIPOC in academia, specifically environmental fields, will take many years. We propose the following actions be taken to improve representation in the following year(s) to decades: Clarify steps for NREN M.S. application: While the application process for undergraduate programs is quite standard, the application process for graduate programs is not as clear-cut. Towards the end of our Graduate Application Requirements page on the NREN website, the Important Notes section suggests that prospective students reach out to potential advisors before applying. This suggestion is standard practice, and should be one of the first pieces of information that a prospective student sees on our application page. We suggest providing clear instructions for applicants on the NREN website to become more accessible to prospective students who may be unfamiliar with the process of applying to graduate school.Eliminate the GRE requirement: We recommend that the department eliminate the GRE requirement for new graduate students. Multiple studies show that the GRE is not a sound predictor of student success, and that the test consistently underpredicts success of minority students (, ). UNH has moved to a  for undergraduate students, acknowledging that testing can be a barrier for a diverse applicant pool. As of August 2020, the GRE is 4 times more expensive than the SAT, the most popular undergraduate test. We ask for an admissions policy which eliminates the GRE requirement, to be put in place for the NREN master’s program immediately. We encourage our department to work with the NRESS program coordinators and the UNH Graduate School to eliminate the GRE requirement for the NRESS PhD program and all UNH Graduate programs. Local Outreach and Education: To increase representation of BIPOC in environmental fields over the long-term, we ask our department to increase outreach and education to New Hampshire communities with a , such as Manchester and Nashua. Partnering with K-12 students in community-based participatory research and other forms of outreach could facilitate interest and recruitment in STEM fields, and. It could also increase enrollment of URMs in undergraduate environmental fields (at UNH or another institution) and serve as a motivating factor for BIPOC to pursue graduate degrees (,) in the future. Increasing department participation at the,, and other K-12 outreach programs will contribute to greater representation of BIPOC in environmental fields. Increased financial support for BIPOC students: The financial burden of an undergraduate degree program is a common  to BIPOC student success and retention. Financial assistance and the development of a scholarship program would ease access for these students. We ask for the allocation of funds for undergraduate scholarships designated for BIPOC, for education, research, and living expenses.Intentionally broaden recruitment audience: Posting job opportunities online is common practice, and clearly shares our openings far and wide. However, the location of these job postings may impact the audience that we reach. Websites like , , and  have been created to reach more diverse audiences. We ask that all NREN job opportunities be posted on these or similar diversity-focused job boards. Additionally, the value of networking in recruitment cannot be underestimated. NREN faculty and staff must diversify their professional networks and share job opportunities within them. Establish a culture of feedback: To promote an inclusive community within NREN, we must as a department develop a culture of respect for differences, understanding, and increased openness. We suggest providing clear instructions on the procedures of reporting and the guidelines for investigating incidences of bias or discrimination on the NREN webpage. Providing information on how the affected student(s) will navigate this process without derailing their progress in their respective program is also important. Clarifying these processes on the website establishes to all prospective students that this department takes these issues seriously and that discrimination will not be tolerated. A culture of feedback ensures that all members of the community are respected, heard, and valued. These ideas and recommendations are not exhaustive, but rather a place for us to start. We are excited to help facilitate the formation of a DEI committee to push these ideas forward. We look forward to working with NREN faculty and staff to improve DEI and help make our department the best it can be.Sincerely,Allison HerreidPhD StudentEarth and Environmental Sciences			Eliza Balch
MSc StudentNatural Resources and the EnvironmentCaroline Kanaskie
PhD StudentEarth and Environmental SciencesChristina Lyons MSc Student Natural Resources and the Environment Hannah M. Fazekas
Postdoctoral Research AssociateAmy ArsenaultMSc StudentNatural Resources and the EnvironmentHeather GrybasPhD CandidateNatural Resources and Environmental StudiesEmily WhalenPhD StudentEarth and Environmental SciencesLukas BernhardtMSc StudentNatural Resources and the EnvironmentAndrew WiegardtPhD StudentNatural Resources and Environmental StudiesMichael ThompsonMSc StudentWildlife and Conservation BiologyDavid MoorePhD StudentNatural Resources and Environmental StudiesIsaac AtivorPhD StudentEarth and Environmental SciencesMackenzie KalpMSc StudentForestryAnna LowienMSc StudentEcosystem ScienceNick AndersonMSc StudentNatural Resources and the EnvironmentChristopher WhitneyPhD CandidateEarth and Environmental SciencesNatalie LounsburyPhD CandidateEarth and Environmental SciencesSam ZuckermanPhD StudentNatural Resources and Environmental StudiesCatherine WongPhD StudentNatural Resources and Environmental StudiesKenneth WindsteinMSc StudentNatural Resources and the EnvironmentSimone ChapmanMSc StudentEnvironmental Conservation and SustainabilityLara MunroPhD StudentNatural Resources and Environmental StudiesTodd D. JohnsonPostdoctoral Research AssociateNatallia DiessnerPhD CandidateNatural Resources and Environmental StudiesKeegan FeeroMSc StudentNatural Resources and the EnvironmentThomas MuratorePhD StudentEarth and Environmental SciencesNatalie LordMSc StudentEnvironmental Conservation and SustainabilitySean SchaeferPhD StudentNatural Resources and Environmental StudiesEric MorrisonPostdoctoral Research Associate
2/ 1/ 2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture

Updated automatically every 5

The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D... minutes

\J‘

The below names of organizations
that stand in solidarity with our
statement.

BAAD E—Board, 2020-2021
NOMAS E—Board, 2020-2021
RISD AIAS, 2020 — 2021

RISD Mango Street, 2020—2021

Published by @gle Drive — Eport Abuse

 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX—1VQOJqus62hajaijnwVVameQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7szriB1nIMTuf—vNQiDbmrIbeH3cBDKlS6/pub 12/12


3. We want to see all community offices and organizations who in any way serve the black
population show support by sharing resources, financial or otherwise

4. We want administration and DPS to foster an environment where students feel safe filing reports
against DPS officers who have profiled or otherwise mistreated them

5. We want the bookstore to apologize for its callous advertising of a “We Fight as One” sweatshirt
and its attempts to profit off of the pain and suffering of Black Trojans

6. We want all faculty, administrators, trustees, and incoming students to take part in a racial bias
training run in part by USG and BSA

7. We want DPS to re-evaluate the extent of its relationship with the LAPD and the threat that it
poses to our black students

8. We want USC to take a stand against police brutality and the unjust treatment of Black people
across the globe through more than just words. Financial donations to organizations like Black
Lives Matter or increasing the resources made available to Black students is just one of the ways
that USC should show its support

This is a chance for all of us to use our voices. To show the world who we are. To be the change we want
to see. To make a difference. We hope we’ve inspired you to join us.

— USC Black Student Assembly


Dear RISD Printmaking Faculty and Staff, This letter serves as a summary, documentation, and expression of the concerns that the rising second year graduate students have discussed amongst ourselves and some suggested steps to make future terms more productive. Specifically, we are talking about departmental diversity, contemporaneity and pedagogy. These issues overlap in many ways, and represent a need for systemic change and continued commitment that goes beyond our tenure here. Diversity is not a solution unto itself in the pursuit of anti-racism in the arts. Every one of us has a responsibility to advocate for racial and gender equality in our department and in our lives. Additionally, there are steps we can take now to improve diversity and ultimately develop the department to become a stronger leader in its field. More transparency between the printmaking department faculty and printmaking graduate students about departmental hiring processes would be a step toward greater diversity. We ask that students be informed and involved with part-time and full-time position searches and hires. This could be similar to our involvement in visiting artist selections—we are currently committed to diversity in our selections as second year graduate students. We understand the barriers that the administration has placed onto our department regarding new hires: limited positions and devaluing of teaching units etc. However, in order for the administration to commit to diversity and equity, we, as a department, must advocate that they put their words into action by addressing barriers to beneficial systematic changes. We need to make a stronger effort to more effectively incorporate artists and educators who can enhance the department's diversity and contemporary relevance. That said, we do not believe there has been an active commitment to diversity, within this department, at this academic institution, and across academia. Since the 1970s, the printmaking department has made roughly four full-time hires that offer a diversity of backgrounds in terms of gender, sexual orientation, and indigenous ancestry. We are asking for future action to improve those statistics. We are not asking that you hire exclusively BIPOC (Black, Indigenous and People of Color), more that you cast the net wider than before and consider how the composition of the faculty and staff reflect a consistent, active commitment to diversity. To the issue of relevance in the department: we would like to see the same net cast to bring in contemporary printmaking artists and educators that go beyond the core techniques. We believe in supporting, experimenting and redefining the printmaking medium. In addition, in the interest of a broader understanding of printmaking as a practice, we have concerns about making the easy or available hire by reaching forprogram alumni. While this can be a wonderful opportunity when the fit is right, relying on alumni to fill positions exacerbates the departments lack of diversity. Additionally, of the department’s full-time faculty, 50% are at the age of retirement. As some have expressed plans to begin the retirement process soon, we suggest students and faculty begin working together to address equitable department hiring. We would like to see a pursuit of more current ideas in the hiring process: bringing in more artists from outside the field and exploring new kinds of course offerings. It seems there has been little change in the breadth and quality of teaching for many years. Our desire for a more diverse, more contemporary set of critics is also reflective of the quality of critique and engagement we have received from several current faculty members. We want the department to stay relevant not just technically versed. There are feedback channels we have used that should be taken into account when hiring; our course evaluations, comments, and the general trend toward seeking outside critics. These imbalances are not to be overlooked. This is an opportunity for the department to take action. We would like to caution that hiring diverse faculty cannot be the only action (as many BIPOC activists have pointed out). Inserting BIPOC into an already broken institution or department that is founded on and benefits from white supremacy leaves the systemic issues untouched while placing the burden on the new BIPOC faculty to fill all of the holes. The steps to address these shortcomings begin with asking questions: Are we assigning texts and sharing precedents from BIPOC? Do our BIPOC students feel heard at critique? Do our faculty members understand how to engage with BIPOC issues while understanding their positions of privilege? Do our professors favor students that look like them? The improvements and changes we ask for are in the interest of the printmaking department, both its faculty and students. We believe that a printmaking department that is more relevant to contemporary art practices and diverse art conversations will thrive. We ask for more support for experimental courses to be added—to the core curriculum, during wintersession, taught by printmaking second-year graduates, etc. We understand that changes to hiring and curriculum face barriers from administration and protocol. We know there are many requirements to fill and financial hurdles. However, we do not see these challenges as an excuse for no change and no action. Aware that the administration has expressed an interest to remove the Printmaking Department altogether—and in the process is squeezing funding for teaching units and therefore losing qualified candidates and curriculum offerings in the process—it is no surprise that student enrollment in the department is declining. Faculty and studentsshould all be eager and steadfast in working together to reestablish our role as a vital department within the Fine Arts at RISD and beyond. Sincerely, Class of 2021 MFA Printmaking Students Alexis Hill Breslin Bell Edward Steffanni Haley MacKeil Mariana Ramos Ortiz Riley Wilson ADDENDUM In light of the statement released on June 29th to the RISD Anti-Racism Coalition by Printmaking Department Head Cornelia McSheehy, there are additional, very concerning issues requiring further response. Our letter crafted for the entire department does not directly address this most recent statement, which amplifies and consolidates many of the concerning issues within the department. It is also full of inaccuracies, problematic anecdotes, personal information about students and staff, and concerning language that we do not condone or agree with. We further do not support a statement made by one voice on behalf of the entirety of the department; students, staff, and BIPOC community members. This department response to risdARC is a statement which creates excuses for insufficient department diversity, and fails to acknowledge the role of the department in systemic inequities. We as a graduate cohort are committed to following up with our department regarding these deeper systemic concerns. We plan to address, in more detail, this statement with our department faculty and staff directly.
example, allowing students to meet potential candidates over lunch and providing comments to the hiring
committee.

(12) Commit to changing admissions procedures to admit more Black students and other
underrepresented minorities. These changes can include removing ﬁnancial barriers for graduate students
by waiving application fees, investing in fellowships to recruit more historically marginalized students,

prioritizing the presence of BIPOC students at recruitment events, strengthening collaborative long-term
relationships with historically Black colleges and universities (HBCU), actively identifying, supporting

and recruiting students from under-resourced schools, to name a few.

(13) Establish a Bias Incident Response Team to better equip the university to support students and

counteract incidences of bias, microaggressions, and racism. The Bias Incident Response Team should
follow similar metrics from the Racial Justice Report Card and it should have representation and input
from BIPOC students, and include formal recognition through payment and/or educational credit.

(14) Require meeting notes from the quarterly Faculty-Student Diversity Committee meeting to be made

available to all graduate students. The goals of the Faculty-Student Diversity Committee are to:

increase diversity of the graduate student population and ensure graduate programs foster an inclusive and
supportive learning and training environment; integrate diversity, equity, and inclusion as a key
component in the success and wellbeing of the graduate, postdoctoral, and faculty experience at UCSF;
and share best practices on current strategies and identify gaps in recruitment and retention of

underrepresented scientists. Therefore, this committee must prioritize input from BIPOC students.

 

(15) Promote interdisciplinary efforts and accountability by evaluating the current anti-racist programs

and policies enacted by each school, publishing the results on the Graduate Division webpage, and
subsequently support the amelioration of disparities across schools and across programs.

We ask that these requests 1, 2, and 3 are completed by June 30, 2020. We ask that requests 4 and 5 be

completed by the start of the 2020 fall quarter. We ask that requests 6 through 15 be completed by the
start of the 2021 fall quarter.

*Please refer to petitions from PSPG, BioE, etc. for program specif1c demands.
*Adapted from UC Davis Department of Public Health students Sarah Muehleck and Sarah Danley.

Sincerely,

UCSF Graduate Students

CLICK HERE TO SIGN THE PETITION



Open letter to the Bioengineering Community ()In light of your request to advance the conversation within our program, we would like to first state that while we are deeply saddened by these events; we are not shocked. We mourn the lives lost to police brutality: George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade, Sean Monterossa, and others. In our lifetimes, we have seen this before with protests erupting over the killing of Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Eric Gardner, and Sandra Bland. Before that, there was Rodney King. Even earlier, Emmet Till. These incidents are not new; they are a reflection of the America that we've lived in all along. Structural racism permeates every layer of society. Academia and  are no different. Black and  are not only severely underrepresented, but they are also less likely to receive  support from top  agencies, more likely to suffer , and are often . We are disappointed with the lack of concrete and actionable commitment from faculty and administration thus far. Therefore, we call on the Bioengineering Executive committee, as well as the chairs of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences (UCSF) and Bioengineering (Berkeley), to implement the following action items. To ignore our demands is to be complicit in accepting the maintenance of an unequal and racist environment. We need you to understand that this letter comes out of anger, exhaustion, and frustration that Black students in . As educators and administrators, we need you to go beyond having a conversation and creating healing spaces. The “conversation” has started   before with little significant progress. You hold the power, and we ask you to act on that power to improve the experiences of your current and future Black students. We need you to act now. If implemented, these action items will positively impact other underrepresented groups and the Bioengineering Association of Students (BEAST) community at large, but right now we need to center and focus our conversation on the Black community. To transform the Bioengineering community, we demand that the Program take the following actions:Provide equitable support for Black students Require mentoring, DEI, and sensitivity courses for facultyEstablish a clear mechanism for reporting discrimination Scholarship for students doing service workSupport the request to Increase financial support to all studentsReinstate the moving bonus and start payment at the same time for UCB- and UCSF-affiliated first-year students before the start of classesProvide laptops for first-year studentsIncrease representation of Black students, faculty and staffIncrease transparency on demographics in the faculty and staff searchesMake DEI efforts a factor in hiring, tenure, and promotionsHave more staff and faculty work on DEIImprove recruitment strategies to diversify our application poolIncrease transparency on demographics in admissionsEstablish an anonymous reporting mechanism for admissionsRequire training for all faculty on admissions committeeImprove the admissions policies with input from faculty and studentsRemove the track categories from admissions Establish an accountability system for our department to ensure significant progress 1. Building a supportive and equitable communityBringing more Black students to our program is not enough. We are not here to make our program’s numbers look good. We want to be successful scientists. Our program needs to commit to properly supporting us throughout our PhD journey. Aggregated  from the 2001-2009 Bioengineering cohorts showed that the PhD completion rate for URM was among the lowest of all the PhD programs at UCSF (listed at 72.7%). We demand:That all BioE faculty at UCSF and Berkeley be required to take yearly and demand that it be . For those that participate in faculty searches and admissions, a refresher specifically DEI-targeted course should be required as well.A clear mechanism for reporting and dealing with discrimination. There should be a clearly stated punishment and rehabilitation, if appropriate, to offenders. And the trainee, staff or faculty should be protected throughout this process, without fear of retaliation. The consequences of not participating should be clearly laid out and severe: not being allowed to take new students, followed by the loss of BioE affiliation.Create a scholarship fund for students nominated by BEAST who have been involved in departmental work (through BEAST committees such as DEC).  In addition to research, many Black students (and URM students generally), have volunteered our time to improve the climate in this program for future students, through DEC and BEAST. We are not only at a disadvantage to our white peers because of systemic racism, but also because we take time out of our research . We need to be called to the table when decisions relating to our identities are being discussed, and should we choose to participate, we need to be compensated for our time. Support the following initiative to stop racial profiling and discrimination and contact the university administration about it: . It is important to us that you help create a community that actually puts the safety of Black students at the forefront. Our presence as scientists is still foreign to campus security. At UCSF, the enforcement of badge verification by UC police is primarily directed at Black students, faculty and other people of color, that must constantly prove they belong to our workspaces. Increase financial support for all studentsWe also live in one of the most expensive areas of the country. Financial insecurity is an issue that affects Black students disproportionately, with a significant amount . If we want to recruit Black students, we need to assure them that they won’t take on a significant financial burden to support their studies. The Program must:i. Reinstate the moving bonus and disperse it along with the first stipend payment before the start of classes & rotations, regardless of UCSF/UC Berkeley affiliation. Many students move from across the country and internationally and do not have sufficient savings or financial support from family.ii. Provide laptops for first-year students. Several programs at UCSF (Tetrad and iPQB) and at Berkeley (EECS) already do this. Having a capable laptop is crucial to make sure Black and other underrepresented students are properly supported in succeeding in classes and rotations.2. There is strength in numbers - commit to changing themWe need more Black faculty and staff.Out of 124 core faculty, only three are Black (as of June 10th, 2020) and none of them participate in the executive committee. To our knowledge, the last 5 faculty searches (4 at Berkeley - BioE and 1 at UCSF - BTS) had no Black faculty candidates at the shortlist stage. We need the BioE faculty and administration to be more proactive and not reactive in creating an equitable climate. We need buy-in from higher-ups in researching, advocating for, and implementing those programs. To create and enforce sustainable long-term solutions, we demand: Transparency on the demographics of the faculty and staff searches in all stages up to the shortlist, past and future.Active participation in DEI efforts must be an explicit requirement in hiring, tenure, and promotion of all faculty and staff members.Significantly more staff and faculty to work on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. The administration cannot rely on current, often Black, staff, students and faculty to work on this alone.We need more Black students.We currently have 10 Black students in our program. One graduated this year and that amounted to almost a 10% drop from our grand total of 11. For reference, 158 students matriculated in Cohort 2015-19. Out of these ten, only 1 does not have a . To increase the number of Black students in the program, we demand:That all faculty commit to attending conferences such as , , and  and to recruit at HBCUs and state universities in our area (SFSU, CSU and others). In addition, faculty should actively engage in professional societies meetings catered towards the Black scientific communities at their respective conferences (special lunches, dinners, advising sessions). This must be part of the service that faculty are required to do yearly to retain BioE affiliation. Transparency of the admissions data on all application stages about the broad demographics of applicants, admitted applicants, and matriculated students, past and future.We must work within the bounds of FERPA and Prop 209, but there is ample room to use aggregate statistics to monitor and inform evidence-based approaches to improve student diversity. It is important for us to understand which stage we are failing to admit and retain Black students and dissect whether it is a failure of recruitment strategy or in the evaluation of these students.The instatement of an anonymous reporting mechanism after every admission meeting to enable the reporting of any problems with the process or with individual reviewers. If an individual gets reported by more than one person for racially insensitive comments and cronyism during any cycle of admissions, they should not be allowed to participate again. That all members of the admissions committee attend training on the priorities and criteria for admission.A fully codified admissions policy, crafted with input for faculty and students, that will help ensure more fair admissions.  have shown that hiring processes with clear criteria are less subject to implicit bias and result in fairer outcomes. Given the current admissions system, a student’s chance of admission is highly dependent on who reads their application. Faculty rely too heavily on metrics such as the number of papers and the clout of the applicant's recommenders; in many cases this has worked to the detriment of stellar URM applicants.Track categories be eliminated or significantly changed during the admissions process.Currently, admissions places a large emphasis on which narrow research interest ‘track’ each applicant declares on their application. This can adversely affect both the quality and diversity of our admitted applicants, as many students end up joining a lab in a different track. Research topic choice and demographic backgrounds are often associated, and this  to largely account for the disparity in the NIH grant award rate between Black and non-Black scientists. Eliminating or broadening/merging the track categories will help to avoid any throttling of diversity due to the uneven distribution of BIPOC applicants across different subfield tracks.3. AccountabilityFinally, we need to hold you, the leaders of the department, accountable to fulfilling these demands. Many of these demands have been made before by a myriad of students, faculty, administrators and more recently with committees such as the Diversity Enhancement Committee (DEC) and the Diversity Task Force (DTF). We demand:That the program holds a town hall every year and lays out how much progress has been made over the past year in fulfilling all of these demands. To see progress every year and that this document serves as a basis for the agenda, but that other ideas to be implemented come up from your own research. Here are  .We commit to writing a rebuttal to that town hall and an updated list of demands every year that should be openly and widely shared. Signed, Nadia AyadLindsey OsimiriDevante HorneYasmin GrahamKaz LewisNathan Tessema ErsumoKwasi AmofaJasmine KingGretchen FordOluwaseun AdegbiteDaniel GebrezgiabhierIndividual endorsements ():
STUDENT-INITIATED PROPOSAL FOR BIPOC-POSITIVE CHANGES IN THE RISD APPAREL DESIGN DEPARTMENT Version 1.4 July 31 2020 Written by: Melissa Kennelly ‘20 Olivia Shen ‘20 Emilia K Mann ‘21 Vielka Marmolejos ‘21 Joshua Coverdale ‘22 Nadine El Nesr ‘22 Seabass Immonen ‘23 Amendments made in this version: *Current faculty and staff names have been removed. 1. I. Faculty: removal of: “Currently the apparel department is seeking to fill three vacant positions. These positions must be given to Black and/or Indigenous candidates.”, as the positions have already been filled. 2. I. Faculty: added clause: “As a more immediate way to bring in more professional, diverse BIPOC voices outside of hiring strategies, bring in more guest lecturers often, to cover global topics that can be incorporated into History of Dress, Design Studios, etc. a. Invite and collaborate with professionals from other universities, schools, and institutions as guest lecturers with specialties in global fashion and textile history, especially BIPOC individuals. The RISD Museum has proved to have a great network for this.” 3. I. Faculty: changed and added to clause: “The next several hires of the department should be BIPOC, working towards a goal of BIPOC faculty taking up 50% of the faculty body, with respect to hiring contracts and processes. a. The next couple full-time faculty hires must go to a black and/or indigenous designer. b. New faculty hires should be comprehensive and experienced in globally diverse apparel and textile knowledge (regardless of their ethnicity).” 4. II.1 History of Dress: added clause: “Working with the student task force and the instructor to restructure the History of Dress curriculum to adequately incorporate BIPOC cultures and history equally with white, euro-centric fashion history, as long as BIPOC and global narratives are not just a tangent.” 5. II.1 History of Dress: added clause: “Possible development of an elective liberal class dedicated to critical object study and analysis with the RISD Museum Costume and Textiles Department (possibly instructed by Laurie Brewer), heavily focusing on global,cultural, social, and economic histories and influences behind a diverse range of clothing.” 6. II.1 History of Dress: added sub-clause: “Alternatively instead of focusing on regions, the class could be structured around common themes and different examples from around the world that fit into those thematic narratives (example: dress for rebellion).” 7. II.2 Design: added to clause: “(Initiate frequent visits to the RISD Museum’s Costume and Textiles Department to observe up-close and engage with clothing, textiles, and materials from BIPOC cultures, in conjunction with American/European objects.) Furthermore, Design studio courses (as well as technical) should not only just pay visits, but actively form a strong relationship with the Museum to incorporate more object/artifact observance, analysis, and critical thinking into the curriculum. Staff at the Museum have already expressed interest and commitment to working with Apparel students. a. Schedule studio courses to align with the open hours/availability of the Costume and Textiles Department. Overlapping of hours and not permitting students to visit the Museum during working hours of the class are strong opposing actions to our mission. b. Show students the importance of placing an object/garment into historical context; illustrate complex and nuanced cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds and implications that lie deep beneath the surface.” PREFACE - DECLARATION OF INTENT The purpose of this proposal is to give voice and direction to the students of the RISD Apparel Design Department, both current and past, in their desire to combat racism within the department, and in particular its anti-black and anti-indigenous attitude. Written based on feedback collected from the student body, this proposal will outline, in sections based on topic, areas in Apparel that have proven to be problematic and in urgent need of change, followed with clear short-term and long-term (though we must stress need for change is extremely urgent) actions the department can implement to begin to become globally aware and actively anti-racist. Racism is rampant throughout the fashion industry and it exists on many levels: the exploitation of people of color’s labor and environmental destruction of their homes, the racist imagery and iconography that continuously resurfaces on the runway, the appropriation of the artwork and culture of marginalized people to generate profit without credit or respect, the perpetuation and expectation of the colonized to fit a certain palatable aesthetic, the continued exclusion of BIPOC from high-level positions within the industry, and the worship of unrealistic western beauty standards that incites mental and emotional trauma for BIPOC.For too long the RISD Apparel Department has excused racist policies and actions citing that this is the “industry standard” and they are merely preparing the students for it. It is time that this sentiment is re-evaluated. We, as representatives of the entire apparel student body, demand more—to no longer be cogs in this self-perpetuating system of oppression. It is imperative that, as we attend an institution that should be more than adequately preparing us to revolutionize industry, we should be educated on issues of social and environmental justice and be treated equally and respectfully. Though tangible actions can be taken to begin creating a truly anti-racist department, such as changes in curriculum and the development of workshops and trainings, the work does not end there. Those who desire change must be prepared to be self-aware, to admit their wrongness, to actively change, and to do the work in order to educate themselves. As members of a world-renowned fine arts institution that provides an open space for a diversity of voices, this school needs strong and active allies—those of us who do not experience direct racism and discrimination have the privilege of decidedly educating ourselves. Through this proposal, we as past and present students of the RISD Apparel Design Department are calling for momentous changes within our department—it is not enough to make a few rules and alter parts of the curriculum; true change for a wholly anti-racist education starts on an individual level of self-awareness and continued commitment to action. Direct quotations from students: “I walked into RISD Apparel knowing that the way I was born, my values, my culture, my religion, my appearance, and my voice were going to be challenged beyond belief, yet I had full confidence that my natural talent, heart and soul would trump it all. However, it felt like an uphill battle throughout my whole time attempting to prove myself and my work. That I am worthy, that I am deserving, and that I am talented. I believe their approach in a ‘tear you down, then build you up’ is an abusive mentality and creates holes in the system. It leaves gaps that are wide open for a certain type of student to be targeted more than others; and the ones who fall victim to such oppression will be seen as “weak.” The ambiance of the whole first semester in apparel is to “weed out the weak,” but how can the weak be selected based on their disposition rather than the meritocracy of their work? How is it that each year a promising student drops out of the major, and they ALWAYS happen to be black or a person of color? You can never say you gave these students a chance.” “I haven’t necessarily felt fully supported my time here and often wonder if my physical identity and background have factored into my experience...Though I am proud of myself I feel like I’ve haven’t been fully supported, given enough credit when due, and then lack motivation and energy to continue with my everything. Apparel needs to believe more in us. I just want to be trusted, believed in, and heard.”“As a black man I had to reconsider my decision in Apparel because of the countless horror stories that I felt would hinder my abilities, destroy my skill sets and affect my success moving forward through the world. The trauma was already hard to bear, seeing my friend who’s black get sexually harassed and have to work in a professional setting with prejudice behavior. Teachers saying inappropriate remarks in student reviews and in front of the class to tear down their confidence, which would indeed make RISD responsible for ruining another Black/ student of colors life.” “The dept. would benefit by paying close attention to present shifts in the industry and really harnessing these changes in its own teaching of apparel. If a small wave is made by big brands, we need to make it a huge wave for us. This is what young designers will grab hold of and make waves with: the social changes; Not just the latest drawstring trend, cuff, collar or buttonhole, though material is extremely important still...So it's about working both sides... socially aware and technically aware. Neither is inherently exclusive, but the shifts we are experienced are highlighting the absolute importance of changing ignorant ways….With so much importance placed on aesthetic design in our department and all of art school, not enough time goes into the political, social, cultural message and place that the design has.” “Furthermore I know the risd apparel design teachers advocate for our work to be strong in meaning and concept. With this in mind there have been various lessons and even clubs surrounding the topic of sustainable fashion. However, this is not the only issue we need to learn about when discussing fashion. I think we should have conversations about various ways the fashion industry needs positive change and this heavily includes topics of race.” I. Faculty and Administrators Based on the feedback from the student survey, it is clear that students are frustrated and disheartened by the lack of BIPOC faculty, administration, and staff members in this department. The overall consensus is that professors and administrators have been ignorant, or have displayed racially-charged behaviors; therefore, there is an urgent need for improvement in staff and individual, and active change amongst faculty members. However this alone will not be enough, and as the department moves forward the make-up of the faculty and staff body must be re-evaluated. Students have also been exposed to tension between faculty members—there should not exist conflict between professors, let alone should students be aware of it. As we address in our solutions, faculty members need to be active in being transparent with each other, hosting productive meetings on the formation of curriculum through frequent meetings. Direct quotations from Students“In the classroom, critiques and in my final grade narratives the remarks said about not only my work but my character were highly inappropriate. Professors feel entitled to flex belittling, inconsistent language but are protected enough by the institution that these narratives are reflected on the student. Through conversations with my peers, graduates, community fellows, all fell within the same line, yet conversations with a select few teachers made me doubt myself and skillset, and feel horrible as a black woman who is not only a designer learning apparel but an established fine artist in my area. The discrepancy is too large to ignore.” “As much as current faculty try to understand students who come from non-white cultures, one only knows one's own culture best. Thus, the only way to mitigate this issue, and to attract a more diverse student group, is to hire BIPOC.” “Given that the apparel department has the opportunity to hire new faculty in the coming year, it is necessary to hire new individuals who can broaden and enrich the learning experience of students through their own diverse experiences. “ “During I believe it was the end of my sophomore year the department needed to hire a new full time faculty. There was a black femme candidate. She was amazing and had done work with traditional Africana textiles and knew a lot about craft. But I think at that time all the students were infatuated with Niel [sic] (previous department head)... I guess it’s just sad because I think in that situation the students were perpetuating racism in prioritizing the fashion illustration European style ‘teaching’ or whatever that Niel [sic] represented [Outside note: Neil demonstrated lack of technical skill] over someone who had clearly such unique and deeply researched apparel field experience” “I don’t doubt that our faculty does not try their best to do [support us] but I think further steps, active efforts need to be taken to propel the future of the department and support of its bipoc students. It is cultural literacy, it’s taking time for us to explain, it is knowing that we are trying, it’s considering every circumstance even if you feel like it’s not an issue. Believe us please.” “This year I feel as though the zoom we had on cultural appropriation was frustrating because [faculty] should have been actively participating as he is someone that would benefit from speaking and learning about cultural appropriation however instead he was seemingly on his phone a majority of the zoom while everyone else spoke one by one.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● As a more immediate way to bring in more professional, diverse BIPOC voices outside of hiring strategies, bring in more guest lecturers often, to cover global topics that can be incorporated into History of Dress, Design Studios, etc.○ Invite and collaborate with professionals from other universities, schools, and institutions as guest lecturers with specialties in global fashion and textile history, especially BIPOC individuals. The RISD Museum has proved to have a great network for this. ● Faculty and administrators are required to educate themselves on anti-racism. A fully anti-racist and globally inclusive education cannot be realized at RISD until faculty members educate themselves and each other. Below are several proposed strategies for how to execute this and establish a system of accountability. However ultimately it is the responsibility of the department to ensure the education of its faculty. ■ Create a required reading list (White Fragility by Robin Diangelo, How to Be An Anti-racist by Ibram X. Kendi, The New Jim Crow by Michelle Alexander, The Autobiography of Malcolm X, Beloved by Toni Morrison, etc.) and incorporate monthly discussions of the books into faculty meetings. These discussions should be moderated by someone from SEI or another appropriate individual. ■ Collaborate with SEI to host workshops on anti-racism with faculty across RISD. These workshops will be mandatory. ■ Bias and sensitivity training may be an option, however based on feedback from SEI this is a costly solution that is ineffective. ● Clear communication across staff through weekly and monthly meetings to touch-base on curriculum and lesson plans, especially to ensure euro-centric content is not the main focus, and that BIPOC aspects of apparel and fashion are equally taught. A formal meeting with all faculty members will be held at the beginning of every term, followed with at least 2 meetings, again with all members, per month. ● Faculty members who cannot see themselves aligning with this initiative, and are not willing to put in the work to educate themselves on these issues should reevaluate their position within RISD and the Apparel Design Department. Long term: ● The next several hires of the department should be BIPOC, working towards a goal of BIPOC faculty taking up 50% of the faculty body, with respect to hiring contracts and processes. This takes into consideration full-time faculty: at least one-third to one-half of the full-time faculty body needs to be BIPOC. This will also work in tandem with proposed changes in curriculum, the following section. ○ Of this 50% at least 30% of the professors should be either Black or Indigenous. ○ Black and Indigenous professors should continue to be at least 30% of the full-time faculty.○ The feedback students give on the applicants presentations will be taken seriously and weigh heavily in deciding factors. In particular the feedback of BIPOC students. ○ The next couple full-time faculty hires must go to a black and/or indigenous designer. ○ New faculty hires should be comprehensive and experienced in globally diverse apparel and textile knowledge (regardless of their ethnicity). ● The Apparel faculty should equally support BIPOC students. ○ Becoming or providing mentors in the fashion industry for BIPOC students. II. Curriculum changes This section will be divided into main areas/courses of our curriculum, and their respective issues that need to be addressed, along with proposed solutions. II.1 History of Dress Overall, students are disappointed that they are not receiving a more globally diverse, and well-rounded curriculum when it comes to learning the history of fashion. Many feel that though the content History of Dress covers is extremely euro-centric. However, there is significant potential for positive growth in developing future lesson plans, as every ethnicity, continent, and country all have rich histories of their respective fashions, and there is an abundance of BIPOC designers, past and present, to learn about. Direct quotations from students “I do remember a large class discussion in which a well known white male designer had copied a traditional African accessory. [Faculty] opened this discussion up to the class, asking if it was appropriation or appreciation. I remained silent because I believe in non- black people doing the work, if ya’ll are so woke speak up right now. One of the students in my class defended his actions, saying that she didn’t see a problem with it, that it’s just fashion, it’s just for fun. Another one of my classmates said that it was cultural appropriation, that black culture is often appropriated and they receive no credit. The other student said “I just don’t think it's that serious” and the class continued on. [Faculty] didn’t explain anything, educate the student or check her ignorance and the rest of my classmates remained silent. This department needs to check its faculty, guest critics and students. My classmates will become the future leaders of this industry and the faculty are allowing them to enter the industry with the same mindset they came into RISD with. It is a severely irresponsible decision to make.” “As a black woman I was graded harsher than my white counterparts. An area that I excelled in was writing, yet I was manipulated into believing that I was once again, not good enough.”“I have noticed that there seems to still be a lack of diversity when teaching fashion history. This is especially noteworthy because RISD (especially during the freshmen year history courses) seems to pride themselves in a more diverse art history teachings when in fact there is very little representation aside from how white and European artists have taken and appropriated the works of POC. I would just really like to see time being made for a true in-depth fashion history course.” “I've experienced a lack of diversity in the lectures we have received on influential designers. With some exceptions, there's been a focus being on European, Japanese and American designers who are either white or of Asian descent.” “To understand clothing as a universal need, we need to examine it outside of 'western high fashion' by looking at designers/functional garments from other parts of the world.” “History of dress taught by [faculty] exposed many of the industries exploitative issues and were then taught to us in a lense that softened the blow of problematic appropriation of cultures that uplift European influences and denounces all of the others that were stolen. These other cultures were also robbed of the opportunities to be understood and taught in the classroom, leading us with an incomplete picture of the past.” “The fact that the only three POC mentioned in history of dress and design are Japanese designers does NOT count as diversity--it is basically just the department’s fetish. Please stop using my culture to continue to perpetuate anti-blackness in this department.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Incorporation of historic black American designers into the curriculum. For example: Steven Burrows, Anne Lowe, and Patrick Kelly. ● Incorporation of contemporary BIPOC designers into the curriculum. For example: Kerby Jean Raymonds, Virgil Abloh, Martine Rose, and Telfar Clemens. ● The above changes can be rigorously established through setting up a set of lectures specifically highlighting BIPOC designers and creatives, instead of simply adding them as tangents to their white counterparts. ● Work with the RISD Museum’s Costume and Textiles Department to reinforce these lectures with visits to see clothing, textiles, and materials from BIPOC cultures and designers in person (see more in “Design”). ● Working with the student task force and the instructor to restructure the History of Dress curriculum to adequately incorporate BIPOC cultures and history equally with white, euro-centric fashion history, as long as BIPOC and global narratives are not just a tangent.● In conjunction with the course Topics of Fashion Theory, History of Dress should heavily address (the roots of) cultural appropriation, stealing, marginalization, and colonization—its history and current presence in the fashion industry. This work can be accomplished through assigned literary readings, in-class discussions with appropriate guest moderators/lecturers, and writing assignments. ○ This class should reference what cultural trends were stolen and explain how they looked before they were watered down. It's not enough to say cultural appropriation exists but how it works, how the ideas are stolen, how high fashion companies change the names of items that are prevalent in marginalized communities, explain the financial gain these companies receive while BIPOC designers are struggling to make ends meet, etc. ○ Given the class’s current focus on the US and western Europe cultural appropriation of black and indigenous culture in fashion should be a primary focus as the appropriation of these two cultures is rampant in the fashion industry. ○ This work will also require the professor to educate themselves on the history of marginalized communities outside of their approximation to fashion and how they are treated by the societies they live and how cultural appropriation is theft of intellectual property and labor that perpetuates systems of abuse. Long-term: ● Development of a year-long History of Dress course: allowing more adequate, equivalent amounts of time for BIPOC fashion history education, and the application of what the class currently does for western fashion—placing clothes in social context—for other regions around the world. Although it is impossible to cover every culture in depth, it’s imperative to provide an equal survey of each region, similar to the attention History of Dress currently pays to the history of fashion in the United Kingdom, France, and the United States to represent the west. ○ Alternatively instead of focusing on regions, the class could be structured around common themes and different examples from around the world that fit into those thematic narratives (example: dress for rebellion). ● Development of additional liberal requirements that focus specifically on the history of apparel, fashion, and textiles of various cultures and practices (e.g. every student must take at least 3 liberal courses pertinent to global fashion). ● Development of a liberal elective/seminar course that focuses entirely on BIPOC fashion history and design, which should include content on colonization and cultural appropriation. The faculty who teaches this course needs to be BIPOC. ● Possible development of an elective liberal class dedicated to critical object study and analysis with the RISD Museum Costume and Textiles Department (possiblyinstructed by Laurie Brewer), heavily focusing on global, cultural, social, and economic histories and influences behind a diverse range of clothing. II.2 Design The general consensus amongst students surrounding Design courses within our curriculum is that they do not address BIPOC cultures, styles, histories, and designers enough. The courses often focus on western design and ideals, and some course content in the past had proven to be downright ignorant. For a course that is supposed to provide students with the most information, inspiration, and thoughtfulness, it severely lacks a diversity in cultural content. Students have had experiences with Design professors who have ignorantly assigned projects that clearly condone cultural appropriation, as well as instances where professors and critics who have deemed any use of BIPOC culture-inspired design as costume-like. One instance where a student’s work in [faculty]’s design class clearly resembled a racist narrative (Hottentot Venus) was not called out by the professor and rather it was used as an example of the best work. A specific Design course students highlighted in the survey is the class that uses subcultures as prompts for the semester. Students felt that the content of this course needs to get at how to treat subcultures, especially those from BIPOC communities, with more respect. Through their faculty and peers, students need to be given holistic guidance on how to research cultures that are not theirs, as well as how to not only avoid appropriation, but advocate against it. Direct quotations from Students “I, a black woman, was told in my final critique that I did not do enough with Hip Hop and Punk. My white classmates received praise for their interpretation of Hip Hop culture as I was told to go back to the drawing board and do more research as if I didn’t have a direct connection with Hip Hop culture growing up in Brooklyn my whole life. I created looks that were a different interpretation of streetwear and Brooklyn culture and I was being told to make things more literal with props like hoodies or timbs to make it more apparent that I took inspiration from Hip Hop. I have heard this comment before during the crits of the seniors that came before me. Comments like “I wish you roughed them up more and put them in brand new timbs, something to tell me this is really about black culture” or “I know the dashiki is traditional, but is it necessary to tell this story of the progression of African American fashion?” Like come on. While I discussed the inspiration images I gathered for my subcultures, I was asked to explain the 400 year head start that white people have financially and educate my teacher and my classmates on why Black rappers portray large amounts of wealth in their music videos and dress the way they do.”“While the junior subcultures assignment accessed some periods within black history, exposure to this learning was resigned to those students who drew these periods from that.” “Junior year I had to create a collection based on Sukeban and Hip Hop subcultures. I felt uncomfortable taking inspiration from randomly selected subcultures, and I didn’t feel as though research and respect was important in this project. It was not really talked about.” “In Junior year we were assigned to create looks based off two subcultures that were given to us at random. I don’t think learning to draw from other cultures for inspiration is bad, however if you are going to do it there is a proper way--involving research into the subculture and history of cultural appropriation. I tried so hard to do this research but neither [faculty] or [faculty] were interested in supporting it--instead choosing to focus just on visual elements of the subcultures as a source of inspiration, which is basically cultural appropriation 101. How are we supposed to create work that isn’t appropriation if we are basically given no support in doing so? Students should educate themselves but so should faculty--and it is difficult for students to give space to educate themselves when their professors are just pushing and pushing them to only look at the visuals.” “I think it’s definitely a step in the right direction to not assign a whole semester based in a general culture or region and REQUIRE students to PULL FROM THAT CULTURE’S IMAGERY OR ELSE THEIR GRADE WILL SUFFER...Like there is a respectful way to learn the art history of a certain culture, and understand silhouette, but it feels like that’s something that fits more into History of Dress” “It was in my sophomore year that [faculty] introduced a Native American project, the intent to use Native American culture to fuel/leap off of, some of us found this problematic and handled it in various ways...A lot of people haven’t heard of this incident but it’s something that was extremely eye opening for me. Basically [faculty] caught wind of a report to the Provost about this and he and our Studio teacher at the time [faculty] (thank heavens u didn’t have her) organized I believe it was a meeting on a Saturday to address this and talk about cultural appropriation. Everyone except about 3 people in my year did not show up (including one of the two who reported [faculty]). Along with our teachers they also brought in a lady from the Museum to talk to us about cultural appropriation (she made some valid points tbh but in general I did not agree with the baseline that it is an American concept and that [faculty] also only meant for us to use it as inspo and not direct copying (although he did say direct copying for muslins would help your technical skills) And then they opened up for general comments and discussion and I still remember to this day what was said from my white classmates, also the only sentiments and comments voiced were from white students besides one black student and myself (because I really couldn’t sit there and let her be the only POC to speak out because I went in prepared to not say anything butwas one of only two people to speak against the rest) but some of the things said as I can recall were as follows: ‘I just think it’s funny how like the person who made all of this happen, hasn’t like said anything and is just sitting here silent’ ‘I don’t give a fuck who my work offends, I am a designer....’ ‘I agree, I really don’t care it is my prerogative as a designer to do and make whatever I want no matter who I offend…’ ‘You know, *sniffle* this whole thing has been so hard for me. I’ve literally been attacked by people when I go to brown asking me how “cultural appropriation” class has been going…’ And I remember I was lit so gobsmacked the lack of empathy shown, the ignorance, and esp the last remark because they made it about themselves instead of who cultural appropriation actually affected.” “The sophomore focus of "identity" in design often made students feel categorized or minimized into very specific parts of their identity such as race.” “There has been situations especially sophomore year where I feel as though ​[faculty] did not handle material or student work with respect and consideration on the topic of cultural appropriation.” “In my final crit, ​[faculty] asked me to explain what I thought cultural appropriation is. I did so patiently, despite the fact this was a question he should have asked me at the beginning of the process not at the end given that it was an important aspect of my work in understanding what it means to borrow from your own culture when you have been displaced from it by geographical location--i.e what it means to be the descendant of an immigrant and how you relate to your ancestral homeland. I told him a clear example of cultural appropriation is the use of the headdress by non-native people, a well documented example of cultural appropriation.​ He told me that I was close-minded for thinking this and then went into a very angry rant completely shutting down all conversation. I left that crit feeling scared to be in this department.” “The fact that the only three POC mentioned in history of dress and design are Japanese designers does NOT count as diversity--it is basically just the department’s fetish. Please stop using my culture to continue to perpetuate anti-blackness in this department.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Bring in guest critics and lecturers to the class who are better able to speak to the topics that different students may be exploring. Have professors engage with said guest critics and lecturers outside of class to better understand how they can incorporate their areas of expertise into the Design curriculum.● Set weekly/monthly coursework schedules that implement a variety of global voices throughout the semester. Host objective, informational lectures on BIPOC fashion history, silhouettes, making methods, designers, etc., providing students with multi-faceted knowledge and inspiration that will guide their process and making. If the professor feels they are unable to host these lectures, invite guest lecturers. Assign required readings and viewings of relevant and necessary resources and include follow-up assignments to allow students to demonstrate critical thinking. ● In conjunction with LAEL liberals, educate students on colonization, cultural appropriation, and stereotyping—should students choose to work with BIPOC cultures that may not be theirs, guide them in understanding how to create well-researched work that fights against cultural appropriation. ● Initiate frequent visits to the RISD Museum’s Costume and Textiles Department to observe up-close and engage with clothing, textiles, and materials from BIPOC cultures, in conjunction with American/European objects. Furthermore, Design studio courses (as well as technical) should not only just pay visits, but actively form a strong relationship with the Museum to incorporate more object/artifact observance, analysis, and critical thinking into the curriculum. Staff at the Museum have already expressed interest and commitment to working with Apparel students. ○ Schedule studio courses to align with the open hours/availability of the Costume and Textiles Department. Overlapping of hours and not permitting students to visit the Museum during working hours of the class are strong opposing actions to our mission. ○ Show students the importance of placing an object/garment into historical context; illustrate complex and nuanced cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds and implications that lie deep beneath the surface. ● Put together a comprehensive collection of BIPOC apparel, fashion, and textiles books, articles, videos, documentaries, etc. through the RISD Library, accessible for students within a certain class, or for Apparel students at large. ● Junior Design class (in particular): ○ Introduce the concept of cultural appropriation early into the subculture assignment. Assign readings and host a productive workshop (which can be led by any educator with BIPOC-centered educational experience). ○ sg and faculty to hold each other accountable throughout the process—learning how to take inspiration from different cultures is important as a designer, but knowing how to facilitate these conversations productively and positively is even more necessary. Long term*: ● Full incorporation of at least 50% BIPOC-based education into every Design semester course by the next year.● Ability to show clear evidence of positive, BIPOC-inclusive changes in students’ work and critical thinking processes once curriculum is significantly developed over the next several semesters. * We see little long-term solutions for this category, as it is easy and fast to implement change in curriculum for Apparel design courses. II.3 Technical Courses Students recognize that across all three years of the Apparel Design studio curriculum, there is a significant lack in educating diverse forms of making and construction methods, as well as very little consideration given to whom we’re making it for. Direct quotations from students “Include curriculum on design for all body types and needs. Too much of the time we are solely designing for sample size, excluding a majority of the real-world population and perpetuating the ideal image of the white, overtly skinny model.” “As much as we emphasize the everlasting quality of apparel in the department as opposed to fashion, almost all of the designers professors spoke about in class were western whites from the last century. To understand clothing as a universal need, we need to examine it outside of 'western high fashion' by looking at designers/functional garments from other parts of the world” “My first semester in Apparel Design, our studio professor told us that we have to start learning patterning and construction techniques with a women’s industry size 8. She specifically said we can complain and discuss body types, sizes, and gender, but this is just how it is. Perhaps that is how the industry is structured, but why not encourage and guide us to challenge that?” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Introduce and incorporate specific non-western and non-euro centric techniques of making from various regions of the BIPOC world as adjunct assignments for 6-credit studio courses. ● Have students participate in active studies and projects on various making methods from different cultures (while maintaining an awareness of cultural appropriation). ● Include the instruction of patterning and construction techniques specific for a variety of body types that range above a size 8 dress form, perhaps following the tutorials for the basic sloper (for both sexes).● Faculty must challenge themselves, and in turn the students, the implications of words like “curvy” and “plus-sized” within our practice in RISD and in the fashion industry as a whole (especially because diversity of body shapes are closely linked with heritage and ethnicity). ● Similar to the one of the points made above in the “Design” curriculum section, organize a collection of resources (through the RISD Library and Museum) for various apparel and textile construction and making methods throughout the world, specifically highlighting those of BIPOC descent. ● Purchase more dress forms that vary in body size and type. If there are no realistic/diverse dress forms available for purchase, instruct students on how to alter dress forms (e.g. padding) so that they accurately represent the bodies the student would like to use as models. Long term: ● Develop alternative courses that can be taken (either during the semester or during wintersession) that focus on techniques of making that are outside the western canon. This step will work in tandem with hiring additional faculty members who have skills that reflect this need, as well as BIPOC-centered changes in Apparel liberal courses. III. Critiques In every end-of-semester critique, students have observed a clear, blatant lack of BIPOC guest critics - students feel as though they see the same type of critic over and over again. In the past years, many critics have expressed a lack of adequate worldly knowledge in being able to critique BIPOC students' work when it comes to their identities. Students with culturally-based work have experienced very little feedback that speaks to the core of their heritage and identities, and instead are met with ignorance, stereotyping-like comments, or simply a complete lack of response. As similarly outlined in the “Design” curriculum section, several students have also experienced critiques on their culturally-based projects with feedback that their work is “costume-like”. Direct quotations from students “It’s a long journey for us to finally get to hiring a full time black faculty but at the very least bringing in guest critics or mentors should require less administrative effort. Jamall Osterholm. Christopher John Rogers. Kerby Jean Raymond. “ “We have called for an increased range of diversity amongst visiting critics for the past three years the class of 2020 studied in RISD Apparel, and yet each panel of criticsremained predominantly white, and showed little diversity in terms of culture, or experience. Critics calling non-western clothing costumes has become troubling and common.” “The world on the whole doesn’t support such racist ideas as it did half a century ago, and neither should the fashion/design world….industry acceptance/perpetuation of cultural appropriation is an excuse I heard from [professors and visiting critics] of why it was okay for the RISD apparel dept to sanction the use of iconography from marginalized peoples” “If the critics aren’t all white, there’s one token black critic. I find myself trying to engage with them more as they are usually the closest we get to diversity throughout the year. I find that when explaining my identity based work critics use words like “cool” or “different” to explain my work as if they are afraid to have a genuine discussion with me, and perhaps they are. Maybe because they don’t want to say the wrong thing or they don’t care. The designers of color are out there, there are no more excuses. RISD has the name and the money to bring creatives of color, at this point we believe you’re actively trying to keep things white and exclusive.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Ask students to propose critics they would like to bring that can best speak to the work. Following that, faculty and students should have a discussion together as to who to bring in, whether they be RISD faculty from other departments, or seasoned industry experts. ○ Special focus should be the opinions of our department’s BIPOC students, as they are not the majority of the student body within Apparel. ● By the next end-of-semester critique (Fall 2020), BIPOC guest critics (with experience in BIPOC fashion/education) must be at least 50% of those attending. This should become the standard for every following critique in the department. ● Open critiques up to student and peer input—currently, the student body is more diverse than the faculty, and students do have the ability to provide valuable and culturally-relevant input, based on their own experiences. ● Faculty and the department head should open themselves up for a follow-up conversation with students, BIPOC especially, in case any student feels the need to express that the critique they received is inadequate, ignorant, and biased. In turn, faculty members should host another discussion (perhaps with the student’s peers and professors) about the student’s work so that they may get the proper and necessary feedback their projects call for. Long term: ● Develop strong relationships with BIPOC designers who are defying the narrative of the traditional apparel practice in order to have a diverse network of potentialguest critics who can become regular voices at critiques, and possibly in the future, Apparel faculty members. IV. Educational Transparency From various student testimonials, we’ve discovered that academic grading for Black and indigenous students is often indefensible, and the grade change appeal process is often manipulated to the detriment of the student. There is little transparency in the grading process across Apparel Design studios, and students are often not held to the same standard. In addition, on multiple occasions, professors have expressed they grade according to “European” standards, which should be completely irrelevant, as we are an institution based in America. As a result, the GPAs of students are significantly lowered, and become extremely hard to raise. Direct quotations from students “The lack of transparency in grading has negatively impacted my success, education, and health. I walked into Apparel with a 3.9 gpa which quickly plummeted to a 3.5 in one semester. Now, I am in jeopardy of being unable to participate in opportunities that I so rightfully deserve, ones that I would have been able to succeed and lead in, if this trend continues, it will emulate that of a downward spiral. The system is designed such that I will always be declining, which leads me to seriously reconsider a future somewhere else that I am treated with respect. Unfortunately, this is the narrative for black artists and designers at RISD.” “As a black woman I was graded harsher than my white counterparts [in History of Dress]. An area that I excelled in was writing, yet I was manipulated into believing that I was once again, not good enough.” “BIPOC are not “heard” in this institution, not excluding the Apparel Department. Though faculty may believe they are being fair and grade without bias but at the end of the day what is lacking in the general knowledge of and application to teaching is cultural literacy and acknowledging behaviors and beliefs toward or in relation to black and brown students... I have found talking to other people who look like me that they have faced similar if not identical experiences to mine. We as black and brown students do not have an agenda, we are just trying to learn and receive equal help and guidance among our peers. Fact check this but the average black students gpa is allegedly 3.25- I heard this while in a black student alliance meeting at the end of the year before lockdown. Whether this number is accurate or not the similarity in experience between other bipoc I talk to is not a coincidence. We need more support, understanding, and consideration. Though I have felt that my experience here was a case by case issue solely responsible for my own shortcomings but through speaking to other people with similar backgrounds that I am not alone and my “lackluster “ performance is not a me problem but something that is an issue of discrimination rooted in the foundation of America and that bleedsinto contemporary classrooms and communities such as Risd that causes black and brown students not to be supported as much as their peers, criticized more harshly which therefore creates a toxic situation and space that we are then still expected to grow in and excel.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Release to all students their grade evaluation sheet (a detailed rubric broken down into categories) in full every semester, to provide transparency and ensure there are no discrepancies due to implicit racial bias. This grading rubric should be presented at the beginning of the semester alongside each course’s syllabus. ● Include tangible rubrics to syllabi to make abundantly clear the ways work is evaluated (e.g. number of looks, content on presentation boards/sketchbook). Continue to follow-through and remind students throughout the semester. ● Schedule in advance grade change appeals meetings so students do not face the added labor of coordinating between professors. ● Develop a transparent and open environment and relationship between faculty members and students. Students should be aware, through the syllabi and introductory class to the course, what will be taught. Should students pose suggestions (especially if they call for greater BIPOC inclusivity), faculty members must hear them out, and work out any necessary additions and/or adjustments. ● Similar to solutions stated in the “Faculty” section, faculty members must also be transparent with each other on what they plan to teach every semester (through frequent weekly/monthly meetings with each other). Faculty members must also open themselves up for discussion on what should be taught and how. ● Potentially establish an online portal (such a moodle, or canvas) where students can have easy access to the grades and feedback for each assignment so that they can address problems or potential instances of race-based bias earlier instead of after the course has ended. Long term: ● Faculty and administrators should actively track the academic performances of Black students compared to the department’s non-black students to observe over time if any racial bias in grading and evaluation has occurred. CONCLUSION - ACCOUNTABILITY The students of RISD apparel know and understand the above demands best, as they are the result of years of inherited passion and frustration. As authors and editors of thisproposal, we aim to establish a student task force which will serve as direct points of contact for the faculty, reinforcing and insisting upon these demands as time elapses. A distinction between the student representative and the student task force is necessary: while the student representative speaks to and on behalf of RISDs undergraduate body of students, the student task force (which can include the student representative) speaks to the apparel faculty on behalf of apparel students and with these demands in mind. The student task force will frequently report to SEI throughout each academic year to hold the Apparel Design Department accountable, and to receive guidance if needed. This is not the only structure that must form. In addition, faculty should establish a system of accountability within themselves in conjunction with the Department Head as the authoritative figure. The faculty should constantly revisit this proposal and review these terms every semester to ensure these statements will be upheld and the culture of accountability on these issues does not die down. The faculty must release statements to the Apparel student body on what they have and have not yet accomplished. These reports should be sent out every few months detailing what faculty members are doing, reading, learning and even their shortcomings. Transparency is necessary. Note that these demands are not out of nowhere, and they will not disappear. If for any reason the faculty and staff of the RISD Apparel Design Department cannot meet these demands and solutions stated in this proposal, an active discussion needs to be held between the student task force and the faculty body to make adjustments and amendments that we as a whole body see fit, though we do not wish to significantly compromise any of our terms. Starting in 2020, the student task force (as part of the collective student body), will be active in holding the faculty, staff, and students accountable, and will seek to measure and record progressive change. As representatives on behalf of the RISD Apparel Design student body, this document formally declares our intent for change. We thank our current RISD Apparel Design Department’s faculty members and administration for their reception towards our demands as stated in this proposal. Additionally, a special thank you to Matthew Shenoda at SEI for supporting us and all of RISD.
“If we were free, it would mean that everyone
else would have to be free since our freedom
would necessitate the destruction of all the
systems of oppression."

Combahee River Collective Statement, 1922

rhdARC

RISD Anti-Racism Coalition


A. Supporting the Black Student Union and their campaign for the removal of the
Abraham Lincoln statue (support BSU demands).29 30
B. Support racial justice initiatives in professional societies (Ecological Society,

Society for the Study of Evolution, Entomological Society of America,31=32 and
others).

C. Supporting increased access to and diversity of staff members in mental health
resources for all students.

D. Such support should take the form of public departmental statements, lending
space and resources to student movements when possible, making donations,
attending events in solidarity with activists, and more.

In closing, we would like to recognize that given the lack of diversity within the graduate student
population of the Department of Integrative Biology, we make these demands primarily through

a lens of white accountability. Our statement represents an acknowledgement of the maintenance
of white supremacy within our department and offers clear actions to begin to implement anti—

racist practices in a timely manner. Anti-racist work can be uncomfortable. That discomfort is
indicative of being challenged in our white privilege, and we must progress through that
discomfort in order to better follow an anti—racist agenda. We hope to use our statement to
engage with BIPOC organizations, faculty, and students across campus and the broader Madison
community to ensure that the needs of our colleagues are reﬂected in this document and
appropriately addressed. Therefore, we recognize that this is a document that has the capacity to
change to best serve our BIPOC colleagues. We look forward to open dialogue within our

department and seeing these actions implemented, as we have a lot of work to do.

Sincerely,

The graduate students of the Department of Integrative Biology at the University of Wisconsin —
Madison

A list of signatories is available here.

29 Meyerhofer, Kelly. June 3 0, 2020. “Universig of Wisconsin students call for removal of Abraham Lincoln statue
on Madison campus.” Chicago Tribune.

30 Reid, Amy. June 25,2020. “UW-Madison students call for removal of Lincoln statue, ‘Just because he was anti-
slavem doesn’t mean he was pro-B lack’ .” Channel 3 000.

31 Tai, Hamsberger, Kochanski, Lowe, McIntosh, and Iuliano. 120201.

32 Entomological Society of America. “Change the name of the Linnaean Games: Entomological Societyof
America. Changeorg.


The Department does not take student concerns seriously about faculty who consistently
show their racist and micro—aggressive behavior. The commentary outlining this in
student evaluations is not taken seriously and acted upon.

Professors in the Textiles Department do not have the critical capacity to engage with or
advise Black students around their work. This often results in critiques in which neither
students or professors are prepared to give critical feedback or they give boring advice
around how to make your work more accessible to a white audience.

Student work has been referred to as ‘primitive’ on multiple occasions. When alerted, the
Department has not acknowledged or acted upon this effectively.

Students are prompted to participate in ‘social issue’ based assignments resulting in
students performing emotional and unpaid labor; teaching many professors about Black,
Indigenous, and Latinx textile histories and contemporary artists. This without the
professors doing the work to research and understand the context or history in order to
effectively respond to the students’ work. The student is then forced to relive trauma and
endure critique that says that “their work doesn’t display their trauma well enough.”

The Textiles Department does not facilitate the necessary conversations with Afro
Diasporic work and invalidates it constantly

Many non—white alumni and students are not comfortable speaking up, orjust gave up
trying

“When I was a student I only heard about the business design industry side of textiles.
‘There are so many anticapitalist beautiful aspects of textiles, and spiritual practices with
textiles. ln ritual and its history. In life and afterlife. We are connected in passing through
those halls. I love being an alumni in part. But those halls are filled with colonial ghosts
too, that are very heavy for some, too.”‘

Gina Gregorio
Senior Critic
RISD Textiles

Jim Drain

Critic

RISD Textiles


2/ 1/ 2021 The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the Department of Architecture

Updated automatically every 5

The Limits of Your Recognition: Race and Diversity at the D... minutes

\J‘

The below names of organizations
that stand in solidarity with our
statement.

BAAD E—Board, 2020-2021
NOMAS E—Board, 2020-2021
RISD AIAS, 2020 — 2021

RISD Mango Street, 2020—2021

Published by @gle Drive — Eport Abuse

 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX—1VQOJqus62hajaijnwVVameQmsUE98KBfEmXZfsBuC7szriB1nIMTuf—vNQiDbmrIbeH3cBDKlS6/pub 12/12


Yannick Peings,
Assistant Researcher

Keith Moore,
Professor


WH'I' JDIN HBHDEMIBS FDR BLHBK SURVIVHL FIND WELLNESS?

Academics for Black Survival and Wellness is a love
offering, a cry, a call to action, a scholar-activist-healer
intervention, a drop in the bucket, and an elegant next
st_ep. For the Black students you teach or mentor as TAs,
for the Black faculty member who sits at the table with
you in the faculty meetings, for the Black RA learning
what and how to research under your guidance, for the
Black staff member working on your floor, and for the
Black person who lives two blocks or two towns from
you, the practices you develop and actions you take right
now matter greatly. Your participation in this week, and
the commitments you carry forward as a result of it, may
literally enhance Black safety and wellness (depending
how you show up and what you put in during and after).
Your willingness to be accountable in the ways we have

outlined may literally prevent additional grief and trauma
and even enhance wellness for us. Additionally, your
personal commitment to protecting Black lives could
enhance your critical consciousness, strengthen your
voice, deepen your integrity, and expand your social
network. In her book Teaching Community: A Pedagogy
of Hope, bell hooks offers the following message to folx
experiencing challenges with building diverse beloved
communities: “my response is always to encourage them
to work actively for racial justice, because that work will
draw to them the community they desire, if their longing
is sincere and not an excuse for living a life cloaked in
unchanged whiteness.” Our asks are clearly outlined
herein, and you will find our goals on our website www.
Academics4BlackLives.com.

BBMMITTINE TI] THE #ﬂﬂﬂDEMIBSl-IBLFIBKLIVES INITIﬂTIVE

If you are not Black, will you commit, show up, and

be accountable to what you learn in this moment, and
for as long as it takes to realize Black liberation? We
are looking forward to hearing about the reflections,
dialogues, and discoveries that emerge as you engage
with our materials and your accountability groups
throughout the training.

If you are Black, will you focus on rest and resistance
and our resources, as suits you? We are looking forward
to your wellness.

Academic community, will you ask your cohort and

department and university to join us as we work, as a
collective of scholars, to promote Black survival and
wellness during and after the current racism pandemic?
We are looking forward to your solidarity. If you are
ready to respond to this call to action, now is the time to
register, promote this call using #Academics4BlackLives,
and prepare to demolish the metaphorical towers so we
can build anew.

 

EBLFIBK

SURVIVHL
MWELLNESS

 

WWW.ﬂl3FIDEMICSl-IBLFICKLIVES.B[IM

INETFIERHM: IEHDHDEMIBEI-IBLHBKLIVEE I TWITTER: EHDHDEMIBEHBEW


The Department does not take student concerns seriously about faculty who consistently
show their racist and micro—aggressive behavior. The commentary outlining this in
student evaluations is not taken seriously and acted upon.

Professors in the Textiles Department do not have the critical capacity to engage with or
advise Black students around their work. This often results in critiques in which neither
students or professors are prepared to give critical feedback or they give boring advice
around how to make your work more accessible to a white audience.

Student work has been referred to as ‘primitive’ on multiple occasions. When alerted, the
Department has not acknowledged or acted upon this effectively.

Students are prompted to participate in ‘social issue’ based assignments resulting in
students performing emotional and unpaid labor; teaching many professors about Black,
Indigenous, and Latinx textile histories and contemporary artists. This without the
professors doing the work to research and understand the context or history in order to
effectively respond to the students’ work. The student is then forced to relive trauma and
endure critique that says that “their work doesn’t display their trauma well enough.”

The Textiles Department does not facilitate the necessary conversations with Afro
Diasporic work and invalidates it constantly

Many non—white alumni and students are not comfortable speaking up, orjust gave up
trying

“When I was a student I only heard about the business design industry side of textiles.
‘There are so many anticapitalist beautiful aspects of textiles, and spiritual practices with
textiles. ln ritual and its history. In life and afterlife. We are connected in passing through
those halls. I love being an alumni in part. But those halls are filled with colonial ghosts
too, that are very heavy for some, too.”‘

Gina Gregorio
Senior Critic
RISD Textiles

Jim Drain

Critic

RISD Textiles


1/31/2021

Letter to the Department of Oceanography

Letter to the Department of Oceanography

or condltlons. in an equal custrloutlon, eacn
person might receive one piece of bread
regardless of their needs; in an
equitable distribution, one would take into
account whether the person has eaten yet that
day, how much food they would need to
survive, and allocate an appropriate amount of
bread that accounts for these initial imbalances.
For example, equity is important when thinking
about education and mentorship, as each
student comes into the program with a different
background and different needs.

Inclusion: The “active, intentional, and ongoing

engagement with diversity,” which allows for
the creation of a space where all individuals
from all groups feel comfortable, safe,
respected, and heard.

Appendix 111. 2018—2019 racial and
ethnic diversity among employees in

SOEST

| I Hawaii I US I SOEST

60

SO

40

30

Percent

20

10

O

‘.".'hitu;~ alone. Asran alone Hispanio’Latino Two or More Black or Nric an

not Hispanic or Races Am t-n'can,

Lat no alone.

Explanatory note: SOEST racial/ethnic diversity data provided
by MIRO (Manoa Institutional Research Office). UH System—
wide data is available at IRO. The data used for this graph can be
accessed lire. If you have questions about this graph contact:

agajigan@hawaii.edu. This is employees data so it includes
faculty, staff and graduate students with GA/TA/RAship. We
have yet to identify a source for undergraduate diversity. We
acknowledge that aggregating Asian as well as other “races” in
one group is inherently problematic. For instance, Asians are not
monolithic but have unequal degrees of oppression.

https://docs . goo gle .com/document/u/ 1/d/e/ 2PACX— 1 VRSnX20FimU g4ZF aK94ParMODBEVQlRpﬁlMu9r—H8Tq409quoykz8B 8X—Q_FYRSNbeUmKTQg0HF_/pub

Published by @gle Drive — Eport Abuse

Updated automatically every 5 minutes

Native
Hawa an, Oine'

Pal: iﬁ c lsla not-r, Alaskan Natl we.

3 (VIC

An‘encan
Indian and

a 0'10

7/7


9/18/2020 BLACK LIVES MATTER Statement on Behalf of the Earth & Planetary Sciences Department :: Earth & Planetary Sciences | The University of New M...

Marli'i—Er‘rilgﬁiillgh MitéiraILHan
-—-'"‘1'Ceriter ' Q
9-—

il Science and
. . 7'1
rearing Library

9 Q}

Electrical urr'd
inmputer Engineering...
J

  
  

—d—

Ortega l-lla'll

Stu

i

V-k CuStE‘HEr Hall
‘ f
lg n m—
'1!
El:
3.1
Hfljiﬁ'i‘llﬁﬂ I]; in“; E] El

3

(http://www.unm.edu)

© The University of New Mexico
Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111
New Mexico’s Flagship University

'3 (https://www.facebook.com/universityofnewmexico) (http://instagram.com/uofnm)
You
(https://twitter.com/unm) (http://wwwyoutube.com/user/unmlive)

more at social.unm.edu (http://socia|.unm.edu)

Accessibility (http://www.unm.edu/accessibi|ity.htm|) Legal (http://www.unm.edu/legal.html)
Contact UNM (http://www.unm.edu/contactunm.htmI)

Consumer Information (https://www.unm.edu/consumer-information/)

New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard (https://hed.state.nmus/resources-for-
schools/bublic_schoo|s/tab|eau-charts-and-tables)

https://eps .unm.edu/news—events/news/itern/blacklivesmatterhtml 3/3


STUDENT-INITIATED PROPOSAL FOR BIPOC-POSITIVE CHANGES IN THE RISD APPAREL DESIGN DEPARTMENT Version 1.4 July 31 2020 Written by: Melissa Kennelly ‘20 Olivia Shen ‘20 Emilia K Mann ‘21 Vielka Marmolejos ‘21 Joshua Coverdale ‘22 Nadine El Nesr ‘22 Seabass Immonen ‘23 Amendments made in this version: *Current faculty and staff names have been removed. 1. I. Faculty: removal of: “Currently the apparel department is seeking to fill three vacant positions. These positions must be given to Black and/or Indigenous candidates.”, as the positions have already been filled. 2. I. Faculty: added clause: “As a more immediate way to bring in more professional, diverse BIPOC voices outside of hiring strategies, bring in more guest lecturers often, to cover global topics that can be incorporated into History of Dress, Design Studios, etc. a. Invite and collaborate with professionals from other universities, schools, and institutions as guest lecturers with specialties in global fashion and textile history, especially BIPOC individuals. The RISD Museum has proved to have a great network for this.” 3. I. Faculty: changed and added to clause: “The next several hires of the department should be BIPOC, working towards a goal of BIPOC faculty taking up 50% of the faculty body, with respect to hiring contracts and processes. a. The next couple full-time faculty hires must go to a black and/or indigenous designer. b. New faculty hires should be comprehensive and experienced in globally diverse apparel and textile knowledge (regardless of their ethnicity).” 4. II.1 History of Dress: added clause: “Working with the student task force and the instructor to restructure the History of Dress curriculum to adequately incorporate BIPOC cultures and history equally with white, euro-centric fashion history, as long as BIPOC and global narratives are not just a tangent.” 5. II.1 History of Dress: added clause: “Possible development of an elective liberal class dedicated to critical object study and analysis with the RISD Museum Costume and Textiles Department (possibly instructed by Laurie Brewer), heavily focusing on global,cultural, social, and economic histories and influences behind a diverse range of clothing.” 6. II.1 History of Dress: added sub-clause: “Alternatively instead of focusing on regions, the class could be structured around common themes and different examples from around the world that fit into those thematic narratives (example: dress for rebellion).” 7. II.2 Design: added to clause: “(Initiate frequent visits to the RISD Museum’s Costume and Textiles Department to observe up-close and engage with clothing, textiles, and materials from BIPOC cultures, in conjunction with American/European objects.) Furthermore, Design studio courses (as well as technical) should not only just pay visits, but actively form a strong relationship with the Museum to incorporate more object/artifact observance, analysis, and critical thinking into the curriculum. Staff at the Museum have already expressed interest and commitment to working with Apparel students. a. Schedule studio courses to align with the open hours/availability of the Costume and Textiles Department. Overlapping of hours and not permitting students to visit the Museum during working hours of the class are strong opposing actions to our mission. b. Show students the importance of placing an object/garment into historical context; illustrate complex and nuanced cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds and implications that lie deep beneath the surface.” PREFACE - DECLARATION OF INTENT The purpose of this proposal is to give voice and direction to the students of the RISD Apparel Design Department, both current and past, in their desire to combat racism within the department, and in particular its anti-black and anti-indigenous attitude. Written based on feedback collected from the student body, this proposal will outline, in sections based on topic, areas in Apparel that have proven to be problematic and in urgent need of change, followed with clear short-term and long-term (though we must stress need for change is extremely urgent) actions the department can implement to begin to become globally aware and actively anti-racist. Racism is rampant throughout the fashion industry and it exists on many levels: the exploitation of people of color’s labor and environmental destruction of their homes, the racist imagery and iconography that continuously resurfaces on the runway, the appropriation of the artwork and culture of marginalized people to generate profit without credit or respect, the perpetuation and expectation of the colonized to fit a certain palatable aesthetic, the continued exclusion of BIPOC from high-level positions within the industry, and the worship of unrealistic western beauty standards that incites mental and emotional trauma for BIPOC.For too long the RISD Apparel Department has excused racist policies and actions citing that this is the “industry standard” and they are merely preparing the students for it. It is time that this sentiment is re-evaluated. We, as representatives of the entire apparel student body, demand more—to no longer be cogs in this self-perpetuating system of oppression. It is imperative that, as we attend an institution that should be more than adequately preparing us to revolutionize industry, we should be educated on issues of social and environmental justice and be treated equally and respectfully. Though tangible actions can be taken to begin creating a truly anti-racist department, such as changes in curriculum and the development of workshops and trainings, the work does not end there. Those who desire change must be prepared to be self-aware, to admit their wrongness, to actively change, and to do the work in order to educate themselves. As members of a world-renowned fine arts institution that provides an open space for a diversity of voices, this school needs strong and active allies—those of us who do not experience direct racism and discrimination have the privilege of decidedly educating ourselves. Through this proposal, we as past and present students of the RISD Apparel Design Department are calling for momentous changes within our department—it is not enough to make a few rules and alter parts of the curriculum; true change for a wholly anti-racist education starts on an individual level of self-awareness and continued commitment to action. Direct quotations from students: “I walked into RISD Apparel knowing that the way I was born, my values, my culture, my religion, my appearance, and my voice were going to be challenged beyond belief, yet I had full confidence that my natural talent, heart and soul would trump it all. However, it felt like an uphill battle throughout my whole time attempting to prove myself and my work. That I am worthy, that I am deserving, and that I am talented. I believe their approach in a ‘tear you down, then build you up’ is an abusive mentality and creates holes in the system. It leaves gaps that are wide open for a certain type of student to be targeted more than others; and the ones who fall victim to such oppression will be seen as “weak.” The ambiance of the whole first semester in apparel is to “weed out the weak,” but how can the weak be selected based on their disposition rather than the meritocracy of their work? How is it that each year a promising student drops out of the major, and they ALWAYS happen to be black or a person of color? You can never say you gave these students a chance.” “I haven’t necessarily felt fully supported my time here and often wonder if my physical identity and background have factored into my experience...Though I am proud of myself I feel like I’ve haven’t been fully supported, given enough credit when due, and then lack motivation and energy to continue with my everything. Apparel needs to believe more in us. I just want to be trusted, believed in, and heard.”“As a black man I had to reconsider my decision in Apparel because of the countless horror stories that I felt would hinder my abilities, destroy my skill sets and affect my success moving forward through the world. The trauma was already hard to bear, seeing my friend who’s black get sexually harassed and have to work in a professional setting with prejudice behavior. Teachers saying inappropriate remarks in student reviews and in front of the class to tear down their confidence, which would indeed make RISD responsible for ruining another Black/ student of colors life.” “The dept. would benefit by paying close attention to present shifts in the industry and really harnessing these changes in its own teaching of apparel. If a small wave is made by big brands, we need to make it a huge wave for us. This is what young designers will grab hold of and make waves with: the social changes; Not just the latest drawstring trend, cuff, collar or buttonhole, though material is extremely important still...So it's about working both sides... socially aware and technically aware. Neither is inherently exclusive, but the shifts we are experienced are highlighting the absolute importance of changing ignorant ways….With so much importance placed on aesthetic design in our department and all of art school, not enough time goes into the political, social, cultural message and place that the design has.” “Furthermore I know the risd apparel design teachers advocate for our work to be strong in meaning and concept. With this in mind there have been various lessons and even clubs surrounding the topic of sustainable fashion. However, this is not the only issue we need to learn about when discussing fashion. I think we should have conversations about various ways the fashion industry needs positive change and this heavily includes topics of race.” I. Faculty and Administrators Based on the feedback from the student survey, it is clear that students are frustrated and disheartened by the lack of BIPOC faculty, administration, and staff members in this department. The overall consensus is that professors and administrators have been ignorant, or have displayed racially-charged behaviors; therefore, there is an urgent need for improvement in staff and individual, and active change amongst faculty members. However this alone will not be enough, and as the department moves forward the make-up of the faculty and staff body must be re-evaluated. Students have also been exposed to tension between faculty members—there should not exist conflict between professors, let alone should students be aware of it. As we address in our solutions, faculty members need to be active in being transparent with each other, hosting productive meetings on the formation of curriculum through frequent meetings. Direct quotations from Students“In the classroom, critiques and in my final grade narratives the remarks said about not only my work but my character were highly inappropriate. Professors feel entitled to flex belittling, inconsistent language but are protected enough by the institution that these narratives are reflected on the student. Through conversations with my peers, graduates, community fellows, all fell within the same line, yet conversations with a select few teachers made me doubt myself and skillset, and feel horrible as a black woman who is not only a designer learning apparel but an established fine artist in my area. The discrepancy is too large to ignore.” “As much as current faculty try to understand students who come from non-white cultures, one only knows one's own culture best. Thus, the only way to mitigate this issue, and to attract a more diverse student group, is to hire BIPOC.” “Given that the apparel department has the opportunity to hire new faculty in the coming year, it is necessary to hire new individuals who can broaden and enrich the learning experience of students through their own diverse experiences. “ “During I believe it was the end of my sophomore year the department needed to hire a new full time faculty. There was a black femme candidate. She was amazing and had done work with traditional Africana textiles and knew a lot about craft. But I think at that time all the students were infatuated with Niel [sic] (previous department head)... I guess it’s just sad because I think in that situation the students were perpetuating racism in prioritizing the fashion illustration European style ‘teaching’ or whatever that Niel [sic] represented [Outside note: Neil demonstrated lack of technical skill] over someone who had clearly such unique and deeply researched apparel field experience” “I don’t doubt that our faculty does not try their best to do [support us] but I think further steps, active efforts need to be taken to propel the future of the department and support of its bipoc students. It is cultural literacy, it’s taking time for us to explain, it is knowing that we are trying, it’s considering every circumstance even if you feel like it’s not an issue. Believe us please.” “This year I feel as though the zoom we had on cultural appropriation was frustrating because [faculty] should have been actively participating as he is someone that would benefit from speaking and learning about cultural appropriation however instead he was seemingly on his phone a majority of the zoom while everyone else spoke one by one.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● As a more immediate way to bring in more professional, diverse BIPOC voices outside of hiring strategies, bring in more guest lecturers often, to cover global topics that can be incorporated into History of Dress, Design Studios, etc.○ Invite and collaborate with professionals from other universities, schools, and institutions as guest lecturers with specialties in global fashion and textile history, especially BIPOC individuals. The RISD Museum has proved to have a great network for this. ● Faculty and administrators are required to educate themselves on anti-racism. A fully anti-racist and globally inclusive education cannot be realized at RISD until faculty members educate themselves and each other. Below are several proposed strategies for how to execute this and establish a system of accountability. However ultimately it is the responsibility of the department to ensure the education of its faculty. ■ Create a required reading list (White Fragility by Robin Diangelo, How to Be An Anti-racist by Ibram X. Kendi, The New Jim Crow by Michelle Alexander, The Autobiography of Malcolm X, Beloved by Toni Morrison, etc.) and incorporate monthly discussions of the books into faculty meetings. These discussions should be moderated by someone from SEI or another appropriate individual. ■ Collaborate with SEI to host workshops on anti-racism with faculty across RISD. These workshops will be mandatory. ■ Bias and sensitivity training may be an option, however based on feedback from SEI this is a costly solution that is ineffective. ● Clear communication across staff through weekly and monthly meetings to touch-base on curriculum and lesson plans, especially to ensure euro-centric content is not the main focus, and that BIPOC aspects of apparel and fashion are equally taught. A formal meeting with all faculty members will be held at the beginning of every term, followed with at least 2 meetings, again with all members, per month. ● Faculty members who cannot see themselves aligning with this initiative, and are not willing to put in the work to educate themselves on these issues should reevaluate their position within RISD and the Apparel Design Department. Long term: ● The next several hires of the department should be BIPOC, working towards a goal of BIPOC faculty taking up 50% of the faculty body, with respect to hiring contracts and processes. This takes into consideration full-time faculty: at least one-third to one-half of the full-time faculty body needs to be BIPOC. This will also work in tandem with proposed changes in curriculum, the following section. ○ Of this 50% at least 30% of the professors should be either Black or Indigenous. ○ Black and Indigenous professors should continue to be at least 30% of the full-time faculty.○ The feedback students give on the applicants presentations will be taken seriously and weigh heavily in deciding factors. In particular the feedback of BIPOC students. ○ The next couple full-time faculty hires must go to a black and/or indigenous designer. ○ New faculty hires should be comprehensive and experienced in globally diverse apparel and textile knowledge (regardless of their ethnicity). ● The Apparel faculty should equally support BIPOC students. ○ Becoming or providing mentors in the fashion industry for BIPOC students. II. Curriculum changes This section will be divided into main areas/courses of our curriculum, and their respective issues that need to be addressed, along with proposed solutions. II.1 History of Dress Overall, students are disappointed that they are not receiving a more globally diverse, and well-rounded curriculum when it comes to learning the history of fashion. Many feel that though the content History of Dress covers is extremely euro-centric. However, there is significant potential for positive growth in developing future lesson plans, as every ethnicity, continent, and country all have rich histories of their respective fashions, and there is an abundance of BIPOC designers, past and present, to learn about. Direct quotations from students “I do remember a large class discussion in which a well known white male designer had copied a traditional African accessory. [Faculty] opened this discussion up to the class, asking if it was appropriation or appreciation. I remained silent because I believe in non- black people doing the work, if ya’ll are so woke speak up right now. One of the students in my class defended his actions, saying that she didn’t see a problem with it, that it’s just fashion, it’s just for fun. Another one of my classmates said that it was cultural appropriation, that black culture is often appropriated and they receive no credit. The other student said “I just don’t think it's that serious” and the class continued on. [Faculty] didn’t explain anything, educate the student or check her ignorance and the rest of my classmates remained silent. This department needs to check its faculty, guest critics and students. My classmates will become the future leaders of this industry and the faculty are allowing them to enter the industry with the same mindset they came into RISD with. It is a severely irresponsible decision to make.” “As a black woman I was graded harsher than my white counterparts. An area that I excelled in was writing, yet I was manipulated into believing that I was once again, not good enough.”“I have noticed that there seems to still be a lack of diversity when teaching fashion history. This is especially noteworthy because RISD (especially during the freshmen year history courses) seems to pride themselves in a more diverse art history teachings when in fact there is very little representation aside from how white and European artists have taken and appropriated the works of POC. I would just really like to see time being made for a true in-depth fashion history course.” “I've experienced a lack of diversity in the lectures we have received on influential designers. With some exceptions, there's been a focus being on European, Japanese and American designers who are either white or of Asian descent.” “To understand clothing as a universal need, we need to examine it outside of 'western high fashion' by looking at designers/functional garments from other parts of the world.” “History of dress taught by [faculty] exposed many of the industries exploitative issues and were then taught to us in a lense that softened the blow of problematic appropriation of cultures that uplift European influences and denounces all of the others that were stolen. These other cultures were also robbed of the opportunities to be understood and taught in the classroom, leading us with an incomplete picture of the past.” “The fact that the only three POC mentioned in history of dress and design are Japanese designers does NOT count as diversity--it is basically just the department’s fetish. Please stop using my culture to continue to perpetuate anti-blackness in this department.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Incorporation of historic black American designers into the curriculum. For example: Steven Burrows, Anne Lowe, and Patrick Kelly. ● Incorporation of contemporary BIPOC designers into the curriculum. For example: Kerby Jean Raymonds, Virgil Abloh, Martine Rose, and Telfar Clemens. ● The above changes can be rigorously established through setting up a set of lectures specifically highlighting BIPOC designers and creatives, instead of simply adding them as tangents to their white counterparts. ● Work with the RISD Museum’s Costume and Textiles Department to reinforce these lectures with visits to see clothing, textiles, and materials from BIPOC cultures and designers in person (see more in “Design”). ● Working with the student task force and the instructor to restructure the History of Dress curriculum to adequately incorporate BIPOC cultures and history equally with white, euro-centric fashion history, as long as BIPOC and global narratives are not just a tangent.● In conjunction with the course Topics of Fashion Theory, History of Dress should heavily address (the roots of) cultural appropriation, stealing, marginalization, and colonization—its history and current presence in the fashion industry. This work can be accomplished through assigned literary readings, in-class discussions with appropriate guest moderators/lecturers, and writing assignments. ○ This class should reference what cultural trends were stolen and explain how they looked before they were watered down. It's not enough to say cultural appropriation exists but how it works, how the ideas are stolen, how high fashion companies change the names of items that are prevalent in marginalized communities, explain the financial gain these companies receive while BIPOC designers are struggling to make ends meet, etc. ○ Given the class’s current focus on the US and western Europe cultural appropriation of black and indigenous culture in fashion should be a primary focus as the appropriation of these two cultures is rampant in the fashion industry. ○ This work will also require the professor to educate themselves on the history of marginalized communities outside of their approximation to fashion and how they are treated by the societies they live and how cultural appropriation is theft of intellectual property and labor that perpetuates systems of abuse. Long-term: ● Development of a year-long History of Dress course: allowing more adequate, equivalent amounts of time for BIPOC fashion history education, and the application of what the class currently does for western fashion—placing clothes in social context—for other regions around the world. Although it is impossible to cover every culture in depth, it’s imperative to provide an equal survey of each region, similar to the attention History of Dress currently pays to the history of fashion in the United Kingdom, France, and the United States to represent the west. ○ Alternatively instead of focusing on regions, the class could be structured around common themes and different examples from around the world that fit into those thematic narratives (example: dress for rebellion). ● Development of additional liberal requirements that focus specifically on the history of apparel, fashion, and textiles of various cultures and practices (e.g. every student must take at least 3 liberal courses pertinent to global fashion). ● Development of a liberal elective/seminar course that focuses entirely on BIPOC fashion history and design, which should include content on colonization and cultural appropriation. The faculty who teaches this course needs to be BIPOC. ● Possible development of an elective liberal class dedicated to critical object study and analysis with the RISD Museum Costume and Textiles Department (possiblyinstructed by Laurie Brewer), heavily focusing on global, cultural, social, and economic histories and influences behind a diverse range of clothing. II.2 Design The general consensus amongst students surrounding Design courses within our curriculum is that they do not address BIPOC cultures, styles, histories, and designers enough. The courses often focus on western design and ideals, and some course content in the past had proven to be downright ignorant. For a course that is supposed to provide students with the most information, inspiration, and thoughtfulness, it severely lacks a diversity in cultural content. Students have had experiences with Design professors who have ignorantly assigned projects that clearly condone cultural appropriation, as well as instances where professors and critics who have deemed any use of BIPOC culture-inspired design as costume-like. One instance where a student’s work in [faculty]’s design class clearly resembled a racist narrative (Hottentot Venus) was not called out by the professor and rather it was used as an example of the best work. A specific Design course students highlighted in the survey is the class that uses subcultures as prompts for the semester. Students felt that the content of this course needs to get at how to treat subcultures, especially those from BIPOC communities, with more respect. Through their faculty and peers, students need to be given holistic guidance on how to research cultures that are not theirs, as well as how to not only avoid appropriation, but advocate against it. Direct quotations from Students “I, a black woman, was told in my final critique that I did not do enough with Hip Hop and Punk. My white classmates received praise for their interpretation of Hip Hop culture as I was told to go back to the drawing board and do more research as if I didn’t have a direct connection with Hip Hop culture growing up in Brooklyn my whole life. I created looks that were a different interpretation of streetwear and Brooklyn culture and I was being told to make things more literal with props like hoodies or timbs to make it more apparent that I took inspiration from Hip Hop. I have heard this comment before during the crits of the seniors that came before me. Comments like “I wish you roughed them up more and put them in brand new timbs, something to tell me this is really about black culture” or “I know the dashiki is traditional, but is it necessary to tell this story of the progression of African American fashion?” Like come on. While I discussed the inspiration images I gathered for my subcultures, I was asked to explain the 400 year head start that white people have financially and educate my teacher and my classmates on why Black rappers portray large amounts of wealth in their music videos and dress the way they do.”“While the junior subcultures assignment accessed some periods within black history, exposure to this learning was resigned to those students who drew these periods from that.” “Junior year I had to create a collection based on Sukeban and Hip Hop subcultures. I felt uncomfortable taking inspiration from randomly selected subcultures, and I didn’t feel as though research and respect was important in this project. It was not really talked about.” “In Junior year we were assigned to create looks based off two subcultures that were given to us at random. I don’t think learning to draw from other cultures for inspiration is bad, however if you are going to do it there is a proper way--involving research into the subculture and history of cultural appropriation. I tried so hard to do this research but neither [faculty] or [faculty] were interested in supporting it--instead choosing to focus just on visual elements of the subcultures as a source of inspiration, which is basically cultural appropriation 101. How are we supposed to create work that isn’t appropriation if we are basically given no support in doing so? Students should educate themselves but so should faculty--and it is difficult for students to give space to educate themselves when their professors are just pushing and pushing them to only look at the visuals.” “I think it’s definitely a step in the right direction to not assign a whole semester based in a general culture or region and REQUIRE students to PULL FROM THAT CULTURE’S IMAGERY OR ELSE THEIR GRADE WILL SUFFER...Like there is a respectful way to learn the art history of a certain culture, and understand silhouette, but it feels like that’s something that fits more into History of Dress” “It was in my sophomore year that [faculty] introduced a Native American project, the intent to use Native American culture to fuel/leap off of, some of us found this problematic and handled it in various ways...A lot of people haven’t heard of this incident but it’s something that was extremely eye opening for me. Basically [faculty] caught wind of a report to the Provost about this and he and our Studio teacher at the time [faculty] (thank heavens u didn’t have her) organized I believe it was a meeting on a Saturday to address this and talk about cultural appropriation. Everyone except about 3 people in my year did not show up (including one of the two who reported [faculty]). Along with our teachers they also brought in a lady from the Museum to talk to us about cultural appropriation (she made some valid points tbh but in general I did not agree with the baseline that it is an American concept and that [faculty] also only meant for us to use it as inspo and not direct copying (although he did say direct copying for muslins would help your technical skills) And then they opened up for general comments and discussion and I still remember to this day what was said from my white classmates, also the only sentiments and comments voiced were from white students besides one black student and myself (because I really couldn’t sit there and let her be the only POC to speak out because I went in prepared to not say anything butwas one of only two people to speak against the rest) but some of the things said as I can recall were as follows: ‘I just think it’s funny how like the person who made all of this happen, hasn’t like said anything and is just sitting here silent’ ‘I don’t give a fuck who my work offends, I am a designer....’ ‘I agree, I really don’t care it is my prerogative as a designer to do and make whatever I want no matter who I offend…’ ‘You know, *sniffle* this whole thing has been so hard for me. I’ve literally been attacked by people when I go to brown asking me how “cultural appropriation” class has been going…’ And I remember I was lit so gobsmacked the lack of empathy shown, the ignorance, and esp the last remark because they made it about themselves instead of who cultural appropriation actually affected.” “The sophomore focus of "identity" in design often made students feel categorized or minimized into very specific parts of their identity such as race.” “There has been situations especially sophomore year where I feel as though ​[faculty] did not handle material or student work with respect and consideration on the topic of cultural appropriation.” “In my final crit, ​[faculty] asked me to explain what I thought cultural appropriation is. I did so patiently, despite the fact this was a question he should have asked me at the beginning of the process not at the end given that it was an important aspect of my work in understanding what it means to borrow from your own culture when you have been displaced from it by geographical location--i.e what it means to be the descendant of an immigrant and how you relate to your ancestral homeland. I told him a clear example of cultural appropriation is the use of the headdress by non-native people, a well documented example of cultural appropriation.​ He told me that I was close-minded for thinking this and then went into a very angry rant completely shutting down all conversation. I left that crit feeling scared to be in this department.” “The fact that the only three POC mentioned in history of dress and design are Japanese designers does NOT count as diversity--it is basically just the department’s fetish. Please stop using my culture to continue to perpetuate anti-blackness in this department.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Bring in guest critics and lecturers to the class who are better able to speak to the topics that different students may be exploring. Have professors engage with said guest critics and lecturers outside of class to better understand how they can incorporate their areas of expertise into the Design curriculum.● Set weekly/monthly coursework schedules that implement a variety of global voices throughout the semester. Host objective, informational lectures on BIPOC fashion history, silhouettes, making methods, designers, etc., providing students with multi-faceted knowledge and inspiration that will guide their process and making. If the professor feels they are unable to host these lectures, invite guest lecturers. Assign required readings and viewings of relevant and necessary resources and include follow-up assignments to allow students to demonstrate critical thinking. ● In conjunction with LAEL liberals, educate students on colonization, cultural appropriation, and stereotyping—should students choose to work with BIPOC cultures that may not be theirs, guide them in understanding how to create well-researched work that fights against cultural appropriation. ● Initiate frequent visits to the RISD Museum’s Costume and Textiles Department to observe up-close and engage with clothing, textiles, and materials from BIPOC cultures, in conjunction with American/European objects. Furthermore, Design studio courses (as well as technical) should not only just pay visits, but actively form a strong relationship with the Museum to incorporate more object/artifact observance, analysis, and critical thinking into the curriculum. Staff at the Museum have already expressed interest and commitment to working with Apparel students. ○ Schedule studio courses to align with the open hours/availability of the Costume and Textiles Department. Overlapping of hours and not permitting students to visit the Museum during working hours of the class are strong opposing actions to our mission. ○ Show students the importance of placing an object/garment into historical context; illustrate complex and nuanced cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds and implications that lie deep beneath the surface. ● Put together a comprehensive collection of BIPOC apparel, fashion, and textiles books, articles, videos, documentaries, etc. through the RISD Library, accessible for students within a certain class, or for Apparel students at large. ● Junior Design class (in particular): ○ Introduce the concept of cultural appropriation early into the subculture assignment. Assign readings and host a productive workshop (which can be led by any educator with BIPOC-centered educational experience). ○ Allow students and faculty to hold each other accountable throughout the process—learning how to take inspiration from different cultures is important as a designer, but knowing how to facilitate these conversations productively and positively is even more necessary. Long term*: ● Full incorporation of at least 50% BIPOC-based education into every Design semester course by the next year.● Ability to show clear evidence of positive, BIPOC-inclusive changes in students’ work and critical thinking processes once curriculum is significantly developed over the next several semesters. * We see little long-term solutions for this category, as it is easy and fast to implement change in curriculum for Apparel design courses. II.3 Technical Courses Students recognize that across all three years of the Apparel Design studio curriculum, there is a significant lack in educating diverse forms of making and construction methods, as well as very little consideration given to whom we’re making it for. Direct quotations from students “Include curriculum on design for all body types and needs. Too much of the time we are solely designing for sample size, excluding a majority of the real-world population and perpetuating the ideal image of the white, overtly skinny model.” “As much as we emphasize the everlasting quality of apparel in the department as opposed to fashion, almost all of the designers professors spoke about in class were western whites from the last century. To understand clothing as a universal need, we need to examine it outside of 'western high fashion' by looking at designers/functional garments from other parts of the world” “My first semester in Apparel Design, our studio professor told us that we have to start learning patterning and construction techniques with a women’s industry size 8. She specifically said we can complain and discuss body types, sizes, and gender, but this is just how it is. Perhaps that is how the industry is structured, but why not encourage and guide us to challenge that?” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Introduce and incorporate specific non-western and non-euro centric techniques of making from various regions of the BIPOC world as adjunct assignments for 6-credit studio courses. ● Have students participate in active studies and projects on various making methods from different cultures (while maintaining an awareness of cultural appropriation). ● Include the instruction of patterning and construction techniques specific for a variety of body types that range above a size 8 dress form, perhaps following the tutorials for the basic sloper (for both sexes).● Faculty must challenge themselves, and in turn the students, the implications of words like “curvy” and “plus-sized” within our practice in RISD and in the fashion industry as a whole (especially because diversity of body shapes are closely linked with heritage and ethnicity). ● Similar to the one of the points made above in the “Design” curriculum section, organize a collection of resources (through the RISD Library and Museum) for various apparel and textile construction and making methods throughout the world, specifically highlighting those of BIPOC descent. ● Purchase more dress forms that vary in body size and type. If there are no realistic/diverse dress forms available for purchase, instruct students on how to alter dress forms (e.g. padding) so that they accurately represent the bodies the student would like to use as models. Long term: ● Develop alternative courses that can be taken (either during the semester or during wintersession) that focus on techniques of making that are outside the western canon. This step will work in tandem with hiring additional faculty members who have skills that reflect this need, as well as BIPOC-centered changes in Apparel liberal courses. III. Critiques In every end-of-semester critique, students have observed a clear, blatant lack of BIPOC guest critics - students feel as though they see the same type of critic over and over again. In the past years, many critics have expressed a lack of adequate worldly knowledge in being able to critique BIPOC students' work when it comes to their identities. Students with culturally-based work have experienced very little feedback that speaks to the core of their heritage and identities, and instead are met with ignorance, stereotyping-like comments, or simply a complete lack of response. As similarly outlined in the “Design” curriculum section, several students have also experienced critiques on their culturally-based projects with feedback that their work is “costume-like”. Direct quotations from students “It’s a long journey for us to finally get to hiring a full time black faculty but at the very least bringing in guest critics or mentors should require less administrative effort. Jamall Osterholm. Christopher John Rogers. Kerby Jean Raymond. “ “We have called for an increased range of diversity amongst visiting critics for the past three years the class of 2020 studied in RISD Apparel, and yet each panel of criticsremained predominantly white, and showed little diversity in terms of culture, or experience. Critics calling non-western clothing costumes has become troubling and common.” “The world on the whole doesn’t support such racist ideas as it did half a century ago, and neither should the fashion/design world….industry acceptance/perpetuation of cultural appropriation is an excuse I heard from [professors and visiting critics] of why it was okay for the RISD apparel dept to sanction the use of iconography from marginalized peoples” “If the critics aren’t all white, there’s one token black critic. I find myself trying to engage with them more as they are usually the closest we get to diversity throughout the year. I find that when explaining my identity based work critics use words like “cool” or “different” to explain my work as if they are afraid to have a genuine discussion with me, and perhaps they are. Maybe because they don’t want to say the wrong thing or they don’t care. The designers of color are out there, there are no more excuses. RISD has the name and the money to bring creatives of color, at this point we believe you’re actively trying to keep things white and exclusive.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Ask students to propose critics they would like to bring that can best speak to the work. Following that, faculty and students should have a discussion together as to who to bring in, whether they be RISD faculty from other departments, or seasoned industry experts. ○ Special focus should be the opinions of our department’s BIPOC students, as they are not the majority of the student body within Apparel. ● By the next end-of-semester critique (Fall 2020), BIPOC guest critics (with experience in BIPOC fashion/education) must be at least 50% of those attending. This should become the standard for every following critique in the department. ● Open critiques up to student and peer input—currently, the student body is more diverse than the faculty, and students do have the ability to provide valuable and culturally-relevant input, based on their own experiences. ● Faculty and the department head should open themselves up for a follow-up conversation with students, BIPOC especially, in case any student feels the need to express that the critique they received is inadequate, ignorant, and biased. In turn, faculty members should host another discussion (perhaps with the student’s peers and professors) about the student’s work so that they may get the proper and necessary feedback their projects call for. Long term: ● Develop strong relationships with BIPOC designers who are defying the narrative of the traditional apparel practice in order to have a diverse network of potentialguest critics who can become regular voices at critiques, and possibly in the future, Apparel faculty members. IV. Educational Transparency From various student testimonials, we’ve discovered that academic grading for Black and indigenous students is often indefensible, and the grade change appeal process is often manipulated to the detriment of the student. There is little transparency in the grading process across Apparel Design studios, and students are often not held to the same standard. In addition, on multiple occasions, professors have expressed they grade according to “European” standards, which should be completely irrelevant, as we are an institution based in America. As a result, the GPAs of students are significantly lowered, and become extremely hard to raise. Direct quotations from students “The lack of transparency in grading has negatively impacted my success, education, and health. I walked into Apparel with a 3.9 gpa which quickly plummeted to a 3.5 in one semester. Now, I am in jeopardy of being unable to participate in opportunities that I so rightfully deserve, ones that I would have been able to succeed and lead in, if this trend continues, it will emulate that of a downward spiral. The system is designed such that I will always be declining, which leads me to seriously reconsider a future somewhere else that I am treated with respect. Unfortunately, this is the narrative for black artists and designers at RISD.” “As a black woman I was graded harsher than my white counterparts [in History of Dress]. An area that I excelled in was writing, yet I was manipulated into believing that I was once again, not good enough.” “BIPOC are not “heard” in this institution, not excluding the Apparel Department. Though faculty may believe they are being fair and grade without bias but at the end of the day what is lacking in the general knowledge of and application to teaching is cultural literacy and acknowledging behaviors and beliefs toward or in relation to black and brown students... I have found talking to other people who look like me that they have faced similar if not identical experiences to mine. We as black and brown students do not have an agenda, we are just trying to learn and receive equal help and guidance among our peers. Fact check this but the average black students gpa is allegedly 3.25- I heard this while in a black student alliance meeting at the end of the year before lockdown. Whether this number is accurate or not the similarity in experience between other bipoc I talk to is not a coincidence. We need more support, understanding, and consideration. Though I have felt that my experience here was a case by case issue solely responsible for my own shortcomings but through speaking to other people with similar backgrounds that I am not alone and my “lackluster “ performance is not a me problem but something that is an issue of discrimination rooted in the foundation of America and that bleedsinto contemporary classrooms and communities such as Risd that causes black and brown students not to be supported as much as their peers, criticized more harshly which therefore creates a toxic situation and space that we are then still expected to grow in and excel.” Proposed solutions Short term: ● Release to all students their grade evaluation sheet (a detailed rubric broken down into categories) in full every semester, to provide transparency and ensure there are no discrepancies due to implicit racial bias. This grading rubric should be presented at the beginning of the semester alongside each course’s syllabus. ● Include tangible rubrics to syllabi to make abundantly clear the ways work is evaluated (e.g. number of looks, content on presentation boards/sketchbook). Continue to follow-through and remind students throughout the semester. ● Schedule in advance grade change appeals meetings so students do not face the added labor of coordinating between professors. ● Develop a transparent and open environment and relationship between faculty members and students. Students should be aware, through the syllabi and introductory class to the course, what will be taught. Should students pose suggestions (especially if they call for greater BIPOC inclusivity), faculty members must hear them out, and work out any necessary additions and/or adjustments. ● Similar to solutions stated in the “Faculty” section, faculty members must also be transparent with each other on what they plan to teach every semester (through frequent weekly/monthly meetings with each other). Faculty members must also open themselves up for discussion on what should be taught and how. ● Potentially establish an online portal (such a moodle, or canvas) where students can have easy access to the grades and feedback for each assignment so that they can address problems or potential instances of race-based bias earlier instead of after the course has ended. Long term: ● Faculty and administrators should actively track the academic performances of Black students compared to the department’s non-black students to observe over time if any racial bias in grading and evaluation has occurred. CONCLUSION - ACCOUNTABILITY The students of RISD apparel know and understand the above demands best, as they are the result of years of inherited passion and frustration. As authors and editors of thisproposal, we aim to establish a student task force which will serve as direct points of contact for the faculty, reinforcing and insisting upon these demands as time elapses. A distinction between the student representative and the student task force is necessary: while the student representative speaks to and on behalf of RISDs undergraduate body of students, the student task force (which can include the student representative) speaks to the apparel faculty on behalf of apparel students and with these demands in mind. The student task force will frequently report to SEI throughout each academic year to hold the Apparel Design Department accountable, and to receive guidance if needed. This is not the only structure that must form. In addition, faculty should establish a system of accountability within themselves in conjunction with the Department Head as the authoritative figure. The faculty should constantly revisit this proposal and review these terms every semester to ensure these statements will be upheld and the culture of accountability on these issues does not die down. The faculty must release statements to the Apparel student body on what they have and have not yet accomplished. These reports should be sent out every few months detailing what faculty members are doing, reading, learning and even their shortcomings. Transparency is necessary. Note that these demands are not out of nowhere, and they will not disappear. If for any reason the faculty and staff of the RISD Apparel Design Department cannot meet these demands and solutions stated in this proposal, an active discussion needs to be held between the student task force and the faculty body to make adjustments and amendments that we as a whole body see fit, though we do not wish to significantly compromise any of our terms. Starting in 2020, the student task force (as part of the collective student body), will be active in holding the faculty, staff, and students accountable, and will seek to measure and record progressive change. As representatives on behalf of the RISD Apparel Design student body, this document formally declares our intent for change. We thank our current RISD Apparel Design Department’s faculty members and administration for their reception towards our demands as stated in this proposal. Additionally, a special thank you to Matthew Shenoda at SEI for supporting us and all of RISD.
9/28/2020 Gmail — How we are Rising to the Challenge

human rights law, Vice Chancellor Spain Bradley’s work will include high—level coordination of
campuswide diversity initiatives; strategic planning; research and education; training and compliance; and
partnering with other senior leaders to ensure that UCLA is a welcoming, supportive and equitable place
for all of our students, faculty and staff.

In the months ahead, building on the suggestions from and in partnership with Bruins throughout our
community, we will continue to advance these and other racial justice initiatives. For us to truly serve our
public mission, UCLA must be a place that respects and empowers all Bruins and that works to overcome
anti-Blackness and other manifestations of racism throughout society. We will remain vigilant in pursuing
these goals.

Sincerely,

Gene D. Block
Chancellor

Emily A. Carter
Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost

https://mai1.google.com/mail/u/1?ik=5dOC1665ec&View=pt&search=a11&permthid=thread—f%3A16791005 37800981360&simp1=msg—f% 3A1679100537800981360 3/3


by the year. Reverse the trend and put a halt to state—sanctioned and all violence. It is
time to construct a campus and community that eschews aggression, fear, violence, and
inaction for care, compassion, creativity and community healing.

Signed,

—Abolition Geographies Collective
abolitiongeog@gmail.com


To be tomorrow morning at 5-7am… ATTN FACULTY: A call for unified action against racial injustice To the faculty:In response to the statement from BIOS leadership regarding racial injustice, we, the undersigned graduate students and postdoctoral researchers of this department, would like to continue this conversation. While the condemnation of overt violence and oppression against Black people and other persecuted groups is absolutely necessary, this is also a time to actively confront the systemic ways in which racism has structured our own community. We have taken the first steps of reflection and evaluation as advocated for in your letter and we now implore our department leadership to take the next actionable steps as outlined at the end of this letter.	We would specifically like to address past and current efforts towards the hiring, retention, and promotion of Black, Indigenous, and other People of Color (BIPOC) at the faculty level. Currently, the faculty in our department is composed of only 23% People of Color and 30% women, with no Black or Indigenous faculty representation. While this representation is unfortunately the status quo for biology departments across the US (), this does not reflect a department “deeply committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive community”. Further, the visible record of recent hiring and promotion depicts an institution that, at best, does not recognize or support the talents of BIPOC and women faculty, and, at worst, actively penalizes the additional emotional and mental labor and service that BIPOC and women faculty often participate in. This visible record, and the message we are hearing from it, impedes the training and development of graduate students and postdoctoral researchers. A more diverse faculty body is beneficial to trainees in several ways. First, diverse groups are more effective at problem solving than homogeneous groups, which could directly increase the productivity and scientific development of graduate students and postdoctoral researchers (). Second, as many graduate students and postdoctoral fellows identify as BIPOC or underrepresented minorities, our development as scientists is improved when the group of faculty responsible for our training represents diverse backgrounds with differing perspectives (). Third, given that BIPOC faculty, women faculty, and queer faculty are disproportionately underrepresented at the full professor level, a department that actively fights against this  could have positive, downstream effects on graduate students pursuing academic careers. Overall, faculty representation is a direct signal of the attributes and traits of scientists valued by the department, and, without it, both current and prospective trainees hear a message unaligned with an appreciation of diversity and inclusion. To actively promote anti-racist recruitment and retention in the department, we are requesting department leadership and faculty take action in four specific ways:Develop a new statement on our departments’ stance on  with actionable efforts to improve recruitment and retention of BIPOC faculty.Initiate a Diversity and Inclusion committee, including graduate student representativesRequire all department members attend cultural sensitivity and implicit bias training, provided by an external source such as  or the , annuallyParticipate and support June 10’s  Initiative, with the intention of using this day as a starting point for continued action at the level of the individual, lab, department, and wider community The actions we are requesting are a starting point for what we hope will be joint-work towards long-term systematic efforts to combat racism and implicit bias in the department. Next week, we would like to continue this conversation at the University level with Dean Mary Galvin, Associate Provost Laura Carlson, and Provost Marie Lynn Miranda. We hope for your support in furthering this conversation. Respectfully,			  Specifically, it is important for graduate students and postdocs to have diverse faculty mentors so that we have role models, mentors, and [something about examples of success - of URMs making it through the leaky pipeline and succeeding].Our goals in this statement are to 1) express our dissatisfaction in past and current faculty-level initiatives to include diverse voices in our community and 2) provide concrete objectives to promote actively anti-racist recruitment and improve diversity and inclusion at the faculty level.	We have evaluated the state of diversity in our department and are unsatisfied with our current status. Currently, the faculty in our department is composed of only 30% women and 23% People of Color, with no Black or Indigenous faculty representation. While this representation is unfortunately the status quo for biology departments across the US (Li & Koedel 2017), if we are truly striving to be an inclusive and diverse department we should have representation higher than the average. Unfortunately, as things stand, the diversity of our graduate student and postdoctoral population is not reflected in the diversity of our faculty. 	We have evaluated the hiring and retention of Black people, People of Color, and members of other underrepresented groups and we are unsatisfied with this department's efforts. Despite a diverse range of candidates, the last five hires for faculty positions in ecology have been white men. While graduate students are often asked to participate in the interviewing process (e.g., presenting graduate student feedback at faculty meetings), how our feedback on candidate’s values of diversity, inclusivity, and mentoring is actually used in the hiring process is unclear. We also recognize that of the last six faculty that went up for tenure, the only two that were awarded their promotion were white men. Unfortunately, our understanding of the hiring and tenure process in our department is limited due to lack of transparency, leaving us to postulate why these decisions are made.Diversity at all levels, from undergraduate students to faculty, is critical for fostering a department that champions diversity and inclusion. As things stand, the diversity of our graduate student and postdoctoral population is not reflected in the diversity of our faculty. As stated in your letter, you have asked for self-reflection and -evaluation. P2: the importance of diversity Having diverse faculty to support a diverse grad student body as role models and mentorsND biology has structured their department in a way that forces graduate students to see URM faculty as “tokens”. When there is 1 BIPOC or 1 LGBTQIA+ or 1 Black person or 1 etc. etc. etc. then that shows to graduate students that to be in a department you have to compete with all other people that look like you if you’re URM. There NEEDS to be more examples of BIPOC + in the department if they expect their BIPOC + graduate students to think that they can go on to be faculty somewhere. Does this thought process make sense? I think I’m having a hard time getting the succinct message acrossThis also places an unfair weight on 1 or few representatives, requiring them to act as unofficial mentors for students who identify with them and want to seek guidance (not the fault of the students or anything). This can end up placing extra responsibility/time demands/emotional burden on minority faculty that others don’t see or experience.  - this describes this phenomenon as cognitive load and I think that’s a nice phrase we could useP3: On the retention and hiring of Black people, People of Color, and members of other underrepresented groups in academia, we are unsatisfied with this department's efforts. Current state of dept30% of research faculty in department are women22.6% of all faculty (including teaching) could be identified as POC, no Black or Indigenous scholars [23.2% of research faculty or 20% of teaching]  I found on furthering inclusivity in academia (Look at Appendix C for faculty diversity)A quick comparison to other university biology departments (Li & Koedel 2017): 23 public universities’ biology department faculty breakdown (2015-2016 academic year): 31.1% female, 16.7% POC (12.9% Asian, 0.7% Black, 3.0% Hispanic, 0.1% Other)  Li, D., & Koedel, C. (2017). Representation and salary gaps by race-ethnicity and gender at selective public universities. Educational Researcher, 46(7), 343-354.The point here being we are basically doing just the average. However, if we are striving to be known as a diverse and inclusive department, we should be far better than the averageP4: Efforts mean nothing if they fail. - Can include that they can’t hide behind the fact that they try to hire faculty of color but they don’t come here - that’s bc this is a terrible department for diversity and inclusionIf BIPOC are not coming (whether applying or accepting if they get offers) here, it likely indicates a failure of the dept to do enough to draw them here - if we’re perceived to be  non-diverse, non-inclusive environment (almost definitely true), we will continue to be Also they interview BIPOC, but often times they don’t actually make any offers to them. It’s like their interviewing them is just a front. Last 5 hires in ecology have been white men Jones, Rocha, Perkins, Medvigy, RohrThe department needs to actually PRIORITIZE diversity - it’s evidently not enough to say IF they apply we will give them fair consideration.  I don’t know how this would come into play but something that says we are committed to increasing diversity as the goal. Professors who have left/are leaving without tenure  - sent an email asking Jenny they have a list of all the faculty that have gone up for tenure/promotionReggie Hill - never went up for tenure and left the department. Now current professor at USC. Example of bad retention record of excellent Black scientists.  Zain Syed - denied tenureAthanasia - denied tenure and denied an extension of the tenure clockMorales - denied tenure That atheist guy that Kimbra was in his lab (Ridenhour maybe?)McDowell (denied promotion)Professors who have gotten tenure - literally somehow alex is the most diverse bc he’s shorter?(L O L…..)- was talking to Alex about this and he said that of the last 6 people up for tenure, the only 2 that got it were white menP5: proposed goals: (maybe just have them numbered with 1-2 sentence description/motivationIs there a way to request that the Department / College be transparent about tenure and promotion? One thing that I think could be relevant in this discussion is where in the promotion timeline people are getting denied (i.e., department-wide vote, college-level, university-level)So, for instance, if a lot of people are being denied tenure at the department-wide vote, then the department is actively preventing promotion of diverse faculty membersI believe at least 2 were denied at levels higher than department Support for URM faculty in dept: If it’s going on at higher levels, that may point towards a bigger issue in the University, but also suggests that the department is not setting up our faculty members to succeed Unnecessary service requirements (as was mentioned with Athanasia), etc. Or that diverse faculty end up doing a lot more unrewarded service mentoring students that aren’t their own Other ideas:  - larger grad student/postdoc wellnesswhat is the breakdown of graduate students (maybe just stick with ecology?) compared to ecology faculty. For example, is the ecology faculty representative of the ecology grad students? (OBVIOUSLY no, but it would be good to show a statistic)Issues: we could get the breakdown of demography from the website, but not sure how we could do that for graduate students, unless we asked ppl to declare it own their own (which in itself may be bad)Shut Down Academia -  - it would be good if the entire bio department could get together and take part in this shut down on June 10th (“no research, no meetings, no classes, no business as usual”). Diversity Statement []Crislyn linked the department’s diversity page in her email, and I personally find it incredibly underwhelming? There’s maybe two or three generic sentences about valuing diversity and then a pithy metaphor about biological diversity. I’d like one of our proposed goals to be to see an updated diversity statement/page from the department that actually outlines concrete actions taken towards fostering/appreciating diversity. The foundation of a Diversity Committee (in agreement with the below suggestion) with members clearly listed, resources for education for non-minority faculty/staff/students, resources for members of the community who feel they have been subjected to discrimination?The institution of a Diversity and Inclusion committee is key in ensuring that our department is continually making an effort to provide equity within our department. The first step would be to assess access to equitable opportunities (i.e. what are the barriers currently in place in our department for BIPOC and what have we done thus far to close the gap?). One that annually reports - breakdown, efforts, etc. We don’t want reports to be quotas though, rather we need cultural change in recruitment and retainment efforts. Rethinking tenure conditions?Conclusion: Diversity begets diversity. Fostering an environment of transparency will foster an environment of inclusivity(Eg no one knowing why Syed was denied tenure and rumors about his religion playing apart)Taking actions to actively diversify faculty in the department will have an immediate impact, but will also make the department more desirable for other potential future URM candidates. It could reduce feelings of isolation and create a more inclusive community. It may help recruit diverse graduate students and postdocs (and help retain them). (Logic here: )We must do the painful work to dismantle the biases, conscious and unconscious, that allow for systematic exclusion of diverse voices from our community. Reasons we’ve heard from other graduate students and faculty regarding why some candidates “aren’t good candidates” for TT positions at ND: Voice is too high, wouldn’t be taken seriouslyMentorship and inclusivity of a candidate is good, but research isn’t strong enoughToo “intense” (in reference to female candidates)(re Athanasia) too much serviceBIOS GOALS []End of department mission statement: “We commit to ensuring diversity of all forms in the pursuit of excellence in learning and discovery.”“Finally, it is imperative that our department, across all levels, reflect the diversity of our multicultural society and that we expand our reach in educating and preparing the next generation of students” Under promote a departmental culture that embraces inclusive excellenceEncourage hiring of faculty that significantly diversifies our faculty demographics. Develop a set of practices for faculty searches that promote increasing diversity and hiring the best as compatible goals Future goals: students, faculty members, and staff who reflect the diverse populations of our multicultural society and serve as positive role models for future generations of biologists.
Propositions from Printmaking Class ‘21 Statement of Intent: Given the lackluster departmental response, in essence shifting much blame to lack of funding and bureaucratic difficulties, we the undergraduate class of 2021 would like to work towards facilitating departmental longevity and remedy a number of issues that currently ail our institutional experience, specifically with the aim of prioritizing BIPOC voices and their involvement. The following contains a short list of potential initiatives, some of which require zero funding and simply the continued effort of faculty. However, others will take real time, work, and reallocation of funds. We must reflect on the ways in which we have harmed Black people and act by redistributing the resources, power, and security that privilege has rewarded us. We expect and require continued transparency and dialogue moving forward to ensure that we can make progress given the current circumstances and limitations set by the global pandemic. We cannot support the department’s response, which shifts culpability and involvement in systems that actively exclude Black, Indigenous, and people of color at this institution. Pointing to an overall institutional lack of BIPOC representation as an excuse for an all white, full-time printmaking faculty is an inadequate justification. Proposed Initiatives: 1. Hiring More BIPOC Professors: The lack of BIPOC faculty should not be reduced to a lack of local “qualified” BIPOC, which is likely untrue. If this were the case, the department should consider teaching technical skills to potential hirees, because it is evident that neither experience nor titles guarantee a good professor. For example, grad students with varying levels of experience are allowed to and often excel in teaching printmaking technique specific courses. Separate training should be offered to newly hired professors regardless of “qualifications” to unify the technical curriculum that is taught to the students in addition to SEI training. Most importantly, we should be actively seeking out and contacting Black printmakers rather than waiting for them to find and respond to job openings. 2. Introduction of Required Print Histories/Contexts Course: With the aim of addressing inequities in academic representation, much of our current print instruction is centered around a western canon that does not include the histories of BIPOC and Queer individuals, or recognize their contributions or advancements to the medium. Furthermore, the curriculum does not acknowledge the medium’s weaponization against enslaved Black people, involvement in a culture of incarceration, and importance as a tool for antislavery and protest. A lack of BIPOC faculty is not a valid justification for the omission of these significant facets of print history.Although our department has recently introduced the course “Print Cultures: Learning Print-History through Object-based Study” we do not feel this course outline speaks specifically enough to the values we wish to see from our education. While object-based focus is an approach to print history, it should not be the sole focus of our instruction, which should also look upon an inclusive, and holistic approach to history. Additionally, though this course was offered, it did not run during the spring semester, and we must stress its absolute necessity and requirement for majors. In reference to Andrew’s request for exemplary curricula, we have looked to other print programs and institutions (Yale, SUNY Purchase, Pratt, etc.) for ideas to recontextualize this course, and propose the following working list of suggestions and materials: ● Global Print Histories ○ encompassing different cultural and societal approaches to the medium as well as addressing it’s shifting role in society over time ○ acknowledging the prominence of a western canon in academia and consciously working to educate us on other nations’ histories within printed media ○ recognition of and education on individuals who furthered print processes ● Printmaking and Power Structures ○ encompassing race, class, gender, and so forth ○ printmaking as used by white enslavers to create posters also referred to as “fugitive slave posters” in pursuit of enslaved Black people who fled from their torturers, which developed into more popularized wanted posters and contributed to the normalization of a culture of incarceration ○ printmaking utilized for propaganda ○ printmaking as a catalyst for developing and disseminating iconographic symbols ● Printmaking and Activism ○ Emory Douglas: printmaker for Black Panther newspaper ○ Taller de Gráfica Popular (The People’s Print Workshop): revolutionary print collective founded by artists Leopoldo Méndez, Pablo O'Higgins, and Luis Arenal in Mexico in 1937 ○ printmaking as used by abolitionists to print and distribute posters, books, images, etc. ○ JustSeeds is a contemporary example of a print collective that supports grassroots struggles for justice through open source graphics, publications etc. ● Printmaking and Accessibility ○ recognizing accessibility issues within printmaking○ used to reach a larger audience but also can be inaccessible with regards to equipment and skill ● Other Materials ○ Pitseolak Ashoona and Kinngait Studios ○ Taller 99 3. Equipping Students & Faculty to Critically Reflect on Identity-based Work: The department must establish a close and continuous relationship with RISD’s Center for Social Equity & Inclusion or the Center for Reconciliation, a non-profit based in Providence, and require all faculty to attend public programs and workshops. Furthermore, all syllabi and course outlines should include resources and designated time within class discussion centered around educating students on how to properly and respectfully engage identity-based work. While the proposed Print Histories course can function in tandem to these actions, it is in no way a placeholder for the continued critical dialogues that will educate students and teachers alike. Too often that burden falls on uncomfortable and uncompensated students in the form of silence or traumatic exchanges disguised as “learning moments” during their own critiques. 4. Recontextualizing Shop Monitor Responsibilities: While the department has made space for out of major engagement, access is still limited to those who can afford studio lab fees. While we are aware of the financial necessity of these fees, we propose creating a system that prioritizes BIPOC and underprivileged students, and puts an end to structural gatekeeping. Rather than turning out-of-major students away, monitors should be directing them to 1:1 demos, sharing diy resources, providing a list of local printing presses, and so forth. Additionally, technician-monitor meetings should be actualized and more often to better train monitors and facilitate this outreach. 5. One on One Instruction: Create a system that allows for a thorough introduction to printmaking techniques for nonmajors or underclassmen, with priority given to BIPOC students, through individual demonstrations given by studio monitors or volunteering members of the department once a week. Additionally, we can emphasize resources through which students may learn DIY methodologies or continue their print explorations beyond studio hours/access. 6. Examination of the RISD Editions Program: As it stands, this program only benefits outside artists and the RISD Museum. Often, these editions are printed with the unpaid labour of Graduate or Senior students with the ruse of making professional connections. As it functions now, this program does not benefit students, and the resources we invest in this program could be better allocated elsewhere. If this program is to continue, it must focus on bolstering BIPOC and underprivileged voices in the print world. Local activist groups or groups committed to community enrichment could benefit from our labor andresources (i.e Amor Network, Black and Pink Providence, Providence Youth Student Movement). 7. Examination or Consolidation of Courses: A number of supposedly-advanced technique courses exist under the guise of teaching new technical skills to students when in actuality they are simply open studio projects. These courses should be eliminated, reformatted to more specifically instruct students, or replaced altogether to make space for courses taught by BIPOC. Additionally, Light To Ink should be consolidated into the respective introductory courses, while it’s degree requirement accreditation could be relieved by our proposed, required history course. 8. Introduction of Student-Teacher Review Panel: While students are given the opportunity to give feedback to their teachers at the end of a course, this feedback is often never addressed or tangibly shown to elicit change. We the students would like to personally hold our professors accountable for improving their teaching. This can be done in an anonymous manner with teachers reading feedback to the class or through open dialogues with faculty members. Our educational and personal concerns have continuously been ignored and they must be addressed.Initiatives That Address Issues of Engagement: To be clear, the following initiatives work to address issues of engagement/membership which the Printmaking Department has outlined as contributing factors to the lack of BIPOC within our major. Therefore, we recognize that these propositions ultimately serve our department and that there remains a need for larger initiatives that center BIPOC—initiatives that directly address and challenge the institutional frameworks that alienate BIPOC and protect those who harm them, Printmaking included. These proposed measures cannot serve as a long term stand in for the racial equity demands of the RISD Anti-Racism Coalition, because they are not solutions to the root of the problem. They should only be implemented in addition to the initiatives above, which more directly serve BIPOC, as soon as safety can be guaranteed given that we are currently facing a global pandemic. While we do not wish to justify the reasoning that the majority white student population is reflected in the Printmaking department by no fault of its own, we propose these initiatives with the intention of proving how easy some of these problems can be to address. 1. Student Involvement in Departmental Processes: Students are left out of crucial departmental processes that affect them the most. Opportunities for transparency and communication can be established through student representation alongside faculty at department meetings, in the hiring process, and in the selection of guest critics or speakers. 2. Better Outreach & Utilization of Department Social Media: We would like to emphasize the necessity of social media as a legitimate tool for broadcasting, recruiting, and supporting the efforts of students and the print world. Social Media accounts should be better implemented to spotlight current student work, as well as alumni and their accomplishments. Additionally they should be used to share information on upcoming events, artist talks/lectures. This responsibility can easily be and should be shared among students and faculty. 3. Reintroduction of the Benson Hall Gallery: The Benson Hall Gallery and the student-run exhibitions it facilitated are a vital part of the printmaking education, which has much to do with curation and presentation. If Printmaking wishes to laud the achievements of its alumni who pursue curation, it must acknowledge the role a gallery space has played in laying that foundation. Given our knowledge of Benson’s space, we believe at least half of the Tech Lab could be reformatted to run as a small, student gallery space. Additionally, the printmaking department should consider moving the plotter and laser cutter to senior studio spaces.4. Junior/Senior Open Studios and Open Critiques: Regularly advertise open studios and critiques to better inform freshmen and sophomores of the types of work made in the department and familiarize them with printmaking critique spaces and focuses. Additionally, we would like to encourage the reintroduction of Sophomore and Junior reviews as well as Shows. 5. Establishment of Cross-Year Partnerships/Mentorships: Given the open and cross disciplinary approach to studio work our major and building facilitates, we would like to establish more concrete interactions between students within the Printmaking department. The Sophomore experience is primarily a technical introduction to printmaking, and these students need to be exposed to the experimental and exploratory approach upperclassmen embody. This can be done through cross-year critiques, print exchanges, or partner/mentorship practices. 6. Inclusion of Teaching Assistants for Graduate-Run Wintersession Courses: Wintersession courses play a fundamental role in establishing freshman and out of major connections with the printmaking department. If these courses are run by unengaged graduate students, our enrollment directly suffers. We propose that all Graduate students teaching Wintersession courses opt for a junior/senior Teaching Assistant to ensure shop protocol is followed and that students taking these courses feel well equipped, instructed, and acknowledged. Acknowledgements: While this list of potential initiatives encompasses an immediate approach to restructuring departmental approaches, we recognize the institutional failures that make serious change and redistribution of equity to BIPOC difficult, specifically RISD’s recent stance on halting hiring processes, their pattern of depriving BIPOC of fair contracts and legitimate positions of leadership, and tokenizing them. In order to move forward as a department, we must also demand the continuing support and uplifting of BIPOC voices in academia. When it comes time to hire new faculty members, both part-time and full, the Printmaking Department must acknowledge its historic whiteness and nepotism, and engage student feedback when hiring instructors. These propositions were drafted by the Printmaking Undergraduate Class of 2021.Copy of Email to Department: Subject: ‘21 BFA Printmaking Departmental Propositions Dear RISD Printmaking Faculty and Students, As members of this institution, and both witnesses and victims to its violence, the Printmaking Class of 2021 recognizes our complacency in waiting to break our silence. We need to be more alert and proactive so that Black, Indigenous, and non-Black people of color, who are already vulnerable to systemic oppression, aren’t forced to speak out at their own risk. We are grateful for the students advocating for BIPOC through the RISD & Race Forum, RISD Anti-Racism Coalition, BlackAtRisd, and all other organizations challenging institutional racism. We will continue to support their work and demand transparency and action from our specific department in addition to RISD as a whole. Attached is our group statement which proposes a number of solutions, both short term and long term, with the intention of supporting our BIPOC faculty and students as well as addressing departmental ailments. Statement of Intent: Given the lackluster departmental response, in essence shifting much blame to lack of funding and bureaucratic difficulties, we, the undergraduate Class of 2021, would like to work towards facilitating departmental longevity and remedy a number of issues that currently ail our institutional experience, specifically with the aim of prioritizing BIPOC voices and their involvement. The following contains a short list of potential initiatives, some of which require zero funding and simply the continued effort of faculty. However, others will take real time, work, and reallocation of funds. We must reflect on the ways in which we have harmed Black people and act by redistributing the resources, power, and security that privilege has rewarded us. We expect and require continued transparency and dialogue moving forward to ensure that we can make progress given the current circumstances and limitations set by the global pandemic. We cannot support the department’s response, which shifts culpability and involvement in systems that actively exclude Black, Indigenous, and people of color at this institution. Pointing to an overall institutional lack of BIPOC representation as an excuse for an all white, full-time printmaking faculty is an inadequate justification. Signed, Class of 2021 BFA Printmaking
Appendix 111. 2018—2019 racial and ethnic diversity among
employees in SOEST

Ed}
I Hawaii I US I SOEST
5D
4D
1—!
i:
El:I
E 313
El:I
D.
2D
1D I I I
White, alarm. Asian. alana Hi5 pania‘Latina Twa or Mara Black or African Native Amaliaan
not Hiapan is: at Rama American. Hawaiian. Gmar indian and
Latina alana Paciﬁc |5lantiar.ﬁ.laakan Native.
alana alana

Explanatory note: SOEST racial/ ethnic diversity data provided by MIRO (Manoa Institutional Research
Office). UH System—Wide data is available at IRO. The data used for this graph can be accessed lﬂ. If you have
questions about this graph contact: agajigan@hawaii.edu. This is employees data so it includes faculty, staff and
graduate students With GA/TA/RAship. We have yet to identify a source for undergraduate diversity. We
acknowledge that aggregating Asian as well as other “races” in one group is inherently problematic. For instance,

Asians are not monolithic but have unequal degrees of oppression.


UCSF Graduate Student Petition Dear Graduate Division Leadership, We are writing to express our strong support for the Graduate Division to take a clear and public stand against the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade, and all other victims of police brutality. We also ask the Graduate Division to take a public stand against the epidemic of police brutality against Black people and Black communities. We believe that as scientists, it is our duty to use our voices and privilege to demand systemic change in our government and our institution. Inaction in the face of recent events represents complicity and perpetuates various forms of racism and inequity in our community at UCSF. As an institution, UCSF prides itself as a leader in “advancing health worldwide” yet, in this instance of  the public health crisis that is racism, it has limited itself to academic influence. We need ongoing committed leadership from all faculty and staff on this issue, not just from those whose jobs focus on equity or diversity.The UCSF Graduate Division explicitly states that their mission is to “foster the highest quality of graduate education and postdoctoral training; to help graduate programs grow and evolve to meet the changing demands of science and needs of society; to nurture an inclusive and supportive learning environment; and to ensure that every graduate student and postdoc at UCSF can look forward to a meaningful and personally satisfying career.” To uphold these values, we demand that the Graduate Division take the following actions:(1) Issue a statement in support of the right to protest during the COVID-19 pandemic and acknowledge that anti-racism protests are essential in creating systemic change in this country. This statement should explicitly state that students will have the full support of the Graduate Division should any conflicts arise with their advisors, PIs, or other faculty members.(2) Condemn police use of tear gas, rubber bullets, and all other forms of violence against protestors. These methods are inhumane and in the case of tear gas, banned in international warfare under the Geneva Protocol and the 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention. In an online petition started at University of Washington and created with Dr. Peter Chin-Hong of UCSF, infectious disease physicians and Public Health officials have decried the use of tear gas against protestors during the COVID-19 pandemic as it increases transmission risk and spread by “making the respiratory tract more susceptible to infection, exacerbating existing inflammation, and inducing coughing.” We ask that as scientists, we add to this growing voice of concern. (3) Issue a statement in support of the current movement to defund UCPD and demand that other academic institutions, specifically other University of California campuses, follow to defund police. Demand that funds be used to expand student mental health and wellness services, such as hiring more psychologists with diverse methodologies centered around cultural humility and competence, and CARE advocates to satisfy the high demand for mental health providers for UCSF graduate students.(4) Compile and continually update a list of resources related to local anti-racist organizations, events, and resources. If current staff are at capacity or not involved in such efforts, then hire a dedicated staff member or create a paid position for a student who is already involved in this work to be formally recognized.(5) Prioritize and greatly increase transparency about the steps the Graduate Division is taking to create tangible and structural change at UCSF. This information should be published on the Graduate Division’s website in an easily accessible and maintainable manner. For example, send out regular email updates regarding: hiring practices and how they ensure representation from communities that are under-represented in academia; how funding and spending are aligned with anti-racist values; and recent and upcoming implicit bias, equity, and social justice trainings that faculty, students, and staff are required to attend. (6) To ensure that the following three demands (7-9) are effectively met, the Graduate Division must hire an expert, with student input, on topics of systemic and institutionalized racism in higher education to design and lead the following trainings:(7) Require all UCSF faculty to receive mandatory yearly training on how to effectively mentor across differences, in particular underrepresented minorities, and how to be an active ally to BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, People of Color) graduate students. All faculty must attend, regardless of whether they currently have graduate students in their lab or not. Faculty must be held accountable for their progress in implementing said training by the Graduate Division and the dean of their corresponding school.(8) Require all UCSF security workers and shuttle drivers to attend a yearly, mandatory training on racism and implicit bias. Humans of UCSF is a collective of BIPOC on campus that was formed to promote anti-racism and bring attention to instances of racism and discrimination on campus. A common theme they have highlighted are experiences of racial profiling of BIPOC showing UCSF employees as the perpetrator, thus the demand for anti-racist training of employees must also be met. Accountability by tracking how the training is being implemented must be publicly available.(9) Require all current and incoming UCSF PhD students to attend an academic training course at the start of the academic fall quarter on race, racism, and social justice, including curricula on white supremacy, white privilege, white fragility, and implicit bias to help ensure accountability for biases, prejudices, and understanding privileges. Faculty and/or graduate student volunteers should NOT be expected to carry the burden of designing and leading a course in which they have no expertise and do not receive compensation for. Until this course can be devised, this material should be incorporated into all first year orientations, third-year orientations, Responsible Conduct of Research, and similar programming with the support of faculty and staff who are knowledgeable on this topic.(10) The addition of a “Racism in Science” mini course that covers topics on how scientific research has benefited from systemic racism and the exploitation of Black populations (e.g. Tuskegee syphilis research study, the story of Henrietta Lacks, Cincinnati Radiation Experiments, to name a few). (11) Commit faculty meeting time to planning long-term actions including: hiring more Black faculty, reviewing existing criteria for tenure to create more inclusive standards, and requiring faculty to go through implicit bias training. Additionally, the Graduate Division must push schools and programs to improve the transparency in hiring practices and allow for student input during the hiring process. For example, allowing students to meet potential candidates over lunch and providing comments to the hiring committee.  (12) Commit to changing admissions procedures to admit more Black students and other underrepresented minorities. These changes can include removing financial barriers for graduate students by waiving application fees, investing in fellowships to recruit more historically marginalized students, prioritizing the presence of BIPOC students at recruitment events, strengthening collaborative long-term relationships with historically Black colleges and universities (HBCU), actively identifying, supporting and recruiting students from under-resourced schools, to name a few. (13) Establish a Bias Incident Response Team to better equip the university to support students and counteract incidences of bias, microaggressions, and racism. The Bias Incident Response Team should follow similar metrics from the  and it should have representation and input from BIPOC students, and include formal recognition through payment and/or educational credit.(14) Require meeting notes from the quarterly Faculty-Student Diversity Committee meeting to be made available to all graduate students. The goals of the Faculty-Student Diversity Committee are to:increase diversity of the graduate student population and ensure graduate programs foster an inclusive and supportive learning and training environment; integrate diversity, equity, and inclusion as a key component in the success and wellbeing of the graduate, postdoctoral, and faculty experience at UCSF; and share best practices on current strategies and identify gaps in recruitment and retention of underrepresented scientists. Therefore, this committee must prioritize input from BIPOC students. (15) Promote interdisciplinary efforts and accountability by evaluating the current anti-racist programs and policies enacted by each school, publishing the results on the Graduate Division webpage, and subsequently support the amelioration of disparities across schools and across programs. We ask that these requests 1, 2, and 3 are completed by June 30, 2020. We ask that requests 4 and 5 be completed by the start of the 2020 fall quarter. We ask that requests 6 through 15 be completed by the start of the 2021 fall quarter.*Please refer to petitions from PSPG, BioE, etc. for program specific demands.   *Adapted from UC Davis Department of Public Health students Sarah Muehleck and Sarah Danley.Sincerely,UCSF Graduate Students 
Signatures of Department of Physics Faculty and Staﬁ, in solidarity:

James Analytis (Faculty)
Carlos Bustamante (Staff)
Kathleen Cooney (Staff)
Barbara J acak (Professor)
Brett Laugtug (Staff)
Simon Leaver—Appelman (Staff)
Kathy Lee (Staff)

Joelle Miles (Staff)
Elizabeth Nakahama (Staff)
Donna Sakima (Staff)
Claudia Trujillo (Staff)


Closing Statement

This list of demands was created because we care deeply about our community of students,
faculty, staff and department. There are elements destructive to building equity and inclusion that
need to be acknowledged and rectified. We look forward to building a better education and living

environment with you.

We ask that the illustration department respond to this letter with formal written statements
and a timeline detailing the application of our demands by 7/ 10, before the leave of absence
deadline. This letter will be available on the website of risdARC. We will also be posting data and

individual testimonies collected by our student—led survey on the account @risdillusdata.

We must acknowledge those who paved the way for this conversation to happen, specifically
the risd Anti—Racism Coalition. We thank all the courageous students and alumni who spoke up
against injustices in the past and in our survey. We would like to close by reiterating risdARC’s

statement:

“Our demands as a collective hold RISD accountable for its proclaimed commitment to fostering a
truly inclusive and socially equitable community on our campus. Efforts towards social, equity, and
inclusion cannot be solely the responsibility of SE1 but should be ingrained in the core of our
institution. This means every department, administrative decision, faculty hiring process, and Public
Safety development and course curriculum needs to acknowledge and work to combat racial—bias
and the systemic injustices that are violently oppressing Black, Brown, Indigenous, and all people of

color.”

Respectfully,

RISD illustration students, past and present

July 6, 2020

15


BERKELEY ' DAVIS ' IRVINE ' LOSANGELES - RIVERSIDE ° SAN DIEGO ' SAN FRANCISCO

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, IRVINE

SANTA BARBARA ' SANTA CRUZ

 

James W. Hicks 5205A McGaugh Hall
Professor of Biology Irvine, CA 92697-2525
Chair, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology jhicks@uci.edu

June 2, 2020

Dear Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Graduate Students and Postdocs,

The past three months have been an exceptionally challenging and stressful time. The COVID19
pandemic swept across the nation, and, overnight, you were asked to socially isolate from family and
friends, to shelter in place, and to reduce or stop your research. The economic fallout from the pandemic

has affected many of your friends and family. These experiences produce anxiety and often frustrating as
the institutional response has been ﬂuid and sometimes uncertain. Anti-Asian xenophobia and news about
sudden changes to Chinese visa rules have added to these anxieties for many of our students and postdocs.
Then seven days ago, anti-black racism led to the tragic and unnecessary death of George Floyd, causing
despair, anger, and rage towards a system in which xenophobia and racism are often woven into the very
fabric of our institutions and society.

These events directly affect our physical and mental health, as we struggle to understand them and how to
fix them and bring about a more just and equitable society. Today, the immediate economic, social, and
political issues feel overwhelming and can be paralyzing. As leaders within the department, we can focus
on those issues that we can control directly. We strongly reafﬁrm that the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology is committed to all of our graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. We pledge to
oppose bias and racism in the department, the university, and the academy. We continue to be committed
to the building of an inclusive department and to providing a safe, supportive, and respectful environment
so that all graduate students and postdocs are free to pursue their passion for biology. We encourage open
communication to discuss any of the issues with the DECADE mentor, the Graduate Advisor, your
mentors, and the Chair. We will listen to you, our students and trainees, and hear your stories, understand
where you are coming from, and do our best to create an environment where you can discuss racism and
bias without fear of being judged.

In the coming weeks and months, we will work to implement concrete steps to reaffirm these values. We
will consider, among other things, a visible anti-racist statement on the department website, expanding
faculty training on implicit bias, developing a departmental climate survey, and leveraging departmental
resources to support new diversity, equity, and inclusion activities. We will humbly ask for your input on
these and other ideas, and we promise to listen with compassion and understanding.

Sincerely,
Jim, Donovan, and Jen

TELEPHONE: (949) 824-6386 FAX: (949) 824-2181


BERKELEY ' DAVIS ' IRVINE ' LOSANGELES - RIVERSIDE ° SAN DIEGO ' SAN FRANCISCO

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, IRVINE

SANTA BARBARA ' SANTA CRUZ

 

James W. Hicks 5205A McGaugh Hall
Professor of Biology Irvine, CA 92697-2525
Chair, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology jhicks@uci.edu

June 2, 2020

Dear Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Graduate Students and Postdocs,

The past three months have been an exceptionally challenging and stressful time. The COVID19
pandemic swept across the nation, and, overnight, you were asked to socially isolate from family and
friends, to shelter in place, and to reduce or stop your research. The economic fallout from the pandemic

has affected many of your friends and family. These experiences produce anxiety and often frustrating as
the institutional response has been ﬂuid and sometimes uncertain. Anti-Asian xenophobia and news about
sudden changes to Chinese visa rules have added to these anxieties for many of our students and postdocs.
Then seven days ago, anti-black racism led to the tragic and unnecessary death of George Floyd, causing
despair, anger, and rage towards a system in which xenophobia and racism are often woven into the very
fabric of our institutions and society.

These events directly affect our physical and mental health, as we struggle to understand them and how to
fix them and bring about a more just and equitable society. Today, the immediate economic, social, and
political issues feel overwhelming and can be paralyzing. As leaders within the department, we can focus
on those issues that we can control directly. We strongly reafﬁrm that the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology is committed to all of our graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. We pledge to
oppose bias and racism in the department, the university, and the academy. We continue to be committed
to the building of an inclusive department and to providing a safe, supportive, and respectful environment
so that all graduate students and postdocs are free to pursue their passion for biology. We encourage open
communication to discuss any of the issues with the DECADE mentor, the Graduate Advisor, your
mentors, and the Chair. We will listen to you, our students and trainees, and hear your stories, understand
where you are coming from, and do our best to create an environment where you can discuss racism and
bias without fear of being judged.

In the coming weeks and months, we will work to implement concrete steps to reaffirm these values. We
will consider, among other things, a visible anti-racist statement on the department website, expanding
faculty training on implicit bias, developing a departmental climate survey, and leveraging departmental
resources to support new diversity, equity, and inclusion activities. We will humbly ask for your input on
these and other ideas, and we promise to listen with compassion and understanding.

Sincerely,
Jim, Donovan, and Jen

TELEPHONE: (949) 824-6386 FAX: (949) 824-2181


To whom it may concern: The Black Lives Matter movement has shed necessary light on racial inequalities and injustices that have been ongoing for years towards Black, Indigenous, People of Color (BIPOC) and Non-Black People of Color (NBPOC). There is a lot to be done to change the systematic racism that is present within not only academia, but also within our department. We hope to have your help and support in doing so. The silence that we have heard from the department so far has been immensely disappointing for the students, but we hope that you are willing to learn and change just as we are, so that we can build a stronger, more inclusive and uplifting community. Our department must do better to address the racial biases that we have and address the privilege that many of us have as a predominantly White department. Geoscience is one of the least diverse STEM fields at all levels and that has not improved in the past 40 years (e.g., Bernard and Cooperdock, 2018). We hope that our department can be an example of how a White-dominated department is changing to amplify the voices of the oppressed in academia, and that begins with ending our silence. We need to be better allies, we need to better educate ourselves on race, we need to actively change the way that we approach our recruitment process, and that is just a start. In this email, we want to highlight general tips for being more inclusive and better allies, as well as provide tangible examples of what we can do as a department, both now and in the coming years, to ensure that the dialogue that begins today becomes an integral part of how our department operates. Departmental numbers on the admittance rate for the Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences (EAPS) were unavailable via Purdue Data Digest (they have been contacted to get access to these numbers), but looking at the College of Science numbers will give a general idea of the admittance rate for different races/ethnicities. Within the various STEM fields, those encompassed under EAPS are even more White-dominated, so keep that in mind. The difference between White and Black students applying differs by an order of magnitude. Besides these numbers, the number of Black students in the overall student body in the College of Science has been 2% for the last 5 years. A primary reason for this lack of Black student representation is not a lack of interest but rather the systematic racism present in our fields. As a department, we must acknowledge this and, more importantly, change our current recruitment practices in order to be more welcoming to BIPOC and NBPOC. College of Science student applicants vs. acceptance numbers for Fall 2019In the EAPS Strategic Plan 2015-2019, Goal 4a is to increase diversity and lists some strategies to do so (https://www.eaps.purdue.edu/docs/pdfs/2015-2019_EAPS_strategic_plan.pdf). However, our enrollment numbers suggest that the strategies listed are not being fully put into action or are minimally effective. The Strategic Plan also lists specific metrics for assessing progress on the departmental level; however, such metrics have not been published, disseminated, or discussed by the department as a whole. Because we want this letter to focus on solutions rather than the current state of affairs, we present two lists of department-specific, as well as general actions, that we feel are a good starting point. These suggestions are sourced from national surveys and documentation, as well as the lived experience of BIPOC and other underrepresented groups. First, here are some specific actions the department can take to address these concerns both in the short-term and longer-term to establish a better, safer community: 1. Regular climate surveys and exit interviews. We need to establish a clear baseline for tracking undergraduate and graduate student experience in our department. There is currently no clear indicator of student experience, nor are there available demographic records. The department should be regularly collecting and publishing both qualitative and quantitative information about student quality of life to identify issues experienced by BIPOC students. If we don’t identify our baseline and get information on student experience, then we cannot respond appropriately. Exit interviews should also be conducted, not just for students who graduate with their Master’s/PhD, but those who leave without completing their degrees (as underrepresented students tend to be more likely to leave without completing their degrees due to their experiences of harassment) to best characterize student experience. 2. Anonymous climate feedback form. To move from passive to active action, the department needs to be able to collect information on people’s experience of bias and harassment and take action on it. One potential option for doing this is an anonymous reporting system, whose reports would be addressed by a standing body (see below). This itself is not a grievance solution mechanism, but it will increase awareness of where specific issues arise in the department. 3. Establishment of a permanent standing body dedicated to advancing and addressing issues of bias, disciminition, and departmental welfare. While a Diversity Committee exists in the department, its activities are not publicized and its role and authority are unclear. Increasing the visibility of this committee, opening moreseats to graduate students, and hosting regular open meetings and forums so that the department as a whole can engage with the committee would be a good start towards giving this committee more power to improve the experience of underrepresented folks in the department, both now and in the future. 4. Publicly posted flowcharts with community resources. Right now, there are no publicly listed resources for what to do if someone in the department is experiencing harassment. This is something that was discussed in a previous EAPS GSA meeting, and a draft is attached separately. Having these flowchats for folks experiencing discrimination that lists their options for addressing and resolving their issues with departmental and/or university support is critical to allowing people’s complaints to actually be heard. 5. Gender-neutral bathrooms. Black trans folks are often overlooked in discussions of Black struggles in academia. Our department can do better for Black trans folks and trans folks in general by establishing gender-neutral bathrooms within our section of the building. The current two gender-neutral bathrooms are extremely far away from all sections of our department and represent an extra burden on anyone who wishes to use them. 6. Implementing a departmental code of conduct. While our department has several guidelines for growth and success, including the strategic plan and the Individual Development Plan (IDP) forms, we consider a code of conduct similar to those adopted by the American Geophysical Union and the American Astronomical Society, to be a critical step to ensuring that our agreed-upon guidelines for inclusive community-focused behavior are understood and consequences for violation are outlined. The presence of a clear and specific code of conduct, signed by the faculty, staff, and students in the department, will enable better reporting. Critically, a code of conduct should define language for consequences and enforcement. Modeling our code of conduct off of those already existing in the community is a good place to start. 7. Have BIPOC and NBPOC speakers for colloquium. Representation and support is important. Inviting BIPOC and NBPOC colloquium speakers, particularly those who are early in their career, is one small way to show that our department knows that their work and their science matters. This could easily be implemented this Fall when our lineup is entirely remote, thus eliminating any transportation issues. Additionally, the department should consider implementing annual or semesterly colloquia dedicated to discussion of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion issues (i.e., bystander training). Second, here are some general tips for how we can be better allies inside and outside of our department (Taken from https://astrobites.org/2020/06/03/how-can-we-support-black-astronomers/): 1. Listen to Black people and amplify their voices. Work to understand what Black people are telling you, and work to listen without getting defensive. This can be difficult, particularly because as [scientists] we’re often trained to defend our scientific results—but it’s important to listen, and to reflect on and learn from our mistakes.2. Check in with Black colleagues, friends, and students. This is a time of immense grief, pain and trauma for Black folks. Check in with the Black folks in your professional and personal circles; share your support and offer to do anything you can. 3. Talk to non-Black people about what’s happening. The burden to address issues of racism and anti-Blackness often falls on Black folks, which is labor-intensive and can be traumatic. Non-Black people have a responsibility to start these conversations. 4. Advocate and don’t gatekeep. Direct effort into advocating for Black students and folks in the field, both by supporting institutional efforts to improve equity and by stepping up for individual Black colleagues. On the flip side, do not engage in gatekeeping behaviors that make the field more exclusionary, such as those that continue to occur in introductory STEM courses and graduate admissions. 5. Educate ourselves. Don’t expect Black people to do the additional work of educating everyone else. Take time to read about the history of the oppression of Black people and the ways anti-Blackness manifests today. Focus on writings by Black folks. In an academic setting, one way to do this is to start an equity-focused journal club. If this is newer to you, this glossary is a good place to start. A list of further suggested reading is at the bottom of this post. 6. Support #BlackInSTEM efforts. Signal-boost Black students and researchers in STEM and share their work. This is critical both for supporting these individuals and for showing others that Black folks can succeed in the field; representation matters. For one great list of Black junior astronomers, check out this Twitter list compiled by Ashley Walker. 7. Speak up and push leadership to speak up. We should expect leaders in our spaces—department chairs, PIs, project/telescope/survey directors—to speak up and express support for Black folks under their leadership. Silence plays into the myth that our workplaces and identities can be separated. 8. Don’t expect productivity. During this time, all of us should be focusing our energy on supporting Black colleagues and anti-racism efforts. Black folks especially are processing, grieving, and fighting. Expecting academic productivity in these times of crisis ignores the experiences and needs of Black people. 9. Don’t take up space. During times of crisis for Black folks, focusing on unrelated issues can seem minimizing. This is especially true for academic-related matters which Black folks may not have time and energy for right now. 10. Donate. Many of us are in the privileged position of still receiving paychecks during this pandemic. Donate to Black justice organizations and to organizations that promote Black folks in STEM. Here are some suggestions: ● Comprehensive list for donations: https://blacklivesmatters.carrd.co/#donate ● Bail funds across cities: https://www.communityjusticeexchange.org/nbfn-directory ● #IAm project: https://www.iamstemproject.org/ ● Black Girls Code: https://www.blackgirlscode.com/ ● Donate directly to Black students! Here’s a list on Twitter, compiled by Dr. Nicole Cabrera Salazar.A Google document has been put together by one of the graduate students in the department to provide resources that can be utilized to educate ourselves on how to be better allies that can be shared with anyone interested to learn. We know that the change will take an adjustment and some time, but there is a need for change. We hope that you will stand up with us and be advocates for eliminating the systemic racism present within our fields and in our department. As a first step, we would like to invite everyone (faculty, students, and staff) to an open forum WebEx meeting (to be scheduled in a follow-up email) centered around a discussion of systemic racism and steps forward for change. We hope you will join us. Sincerely, Amanda Rudolph and Adeene Denton Co-Signed by: [31 graduate students whose names I removed for sharing purposes]

Black Lives Matter. A Commitment to Action from UCI ESS Faculty and Graduate Student Leaders Dear ESS family, In collaboration with grad students and faculty, we send our strong statement of solidarity and long-term commitment to ending anti-Black racism. This commitment is a starting point meant to initialize a continued dialogue and, through our actions, to move the ESS department in a direction of anti-racism. We intend this letter to be revised as we learn and hear more of the voices and needs of the community served by ESS. First of all, where we stand: Black Lives Matter. We are heartbroken and outraged by the continued anti-Black racism and police brutality in this country, including in our local area. We recognize that many of us continue to benefit from white privilege, while other members of our ESS community have faced discrimination, microaggressions, overt racism, and police brutality to an extent that many of us cannot fully understand. We acknowledge that the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were not isolated instances; that the officers responsible are not anomalies within an otherwise functioning law enforcement system, and we stand in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement against these injustices. Lastly, we acknowledge that systemic racism and implicit biases are pervasive in academia, and we recognize our responsibility to change that system. Second, what we are committing to: ● We are committed to amplifying Black voices in science. These actions can include ESS seminars, curricula, social media, and department events. We will increase our seminar invitations to Black scientists. We will make efforts to recognize more Black researchers in our undergraduate and graduate courses. We will expand our curriculum and encourage discussion of relevant environmental and climate justice issues during our courses and seminars. We will regularly feature Black scientists and their research on our website, on social media, and in other venues. ● We are committing to increasing efforts to recruit and retain Black students, researchers, and faculty. We remain committed to our mission of creating an equitable, diverse, and inclusive community within the ESS department at all levels. We have ongoing efforts, yet we acknowledge that we still have a long way to go. Black scholars remain underrepresented among the ESS faculty and student population, as well as in the broader geoscience community. We commit to increasing efforts to recruit and support Black students, including through our participation in programs such as the AGU Bridge Program and the UC-HBCU Initiative, through outreach to underserved K-12 schools, community colleges, and minority serving institutions, and through mentorship programs and UCI programs such as DECADE. We will work to ensure that everyone within ESS can receive training in implicit bias and mentoring. We will continually monitor and seek to improve our graduate admission and faculty hiring processes to follow best practices based on diversity and equity research. Third, we acknowledge the intersectionality of Blackness with other aspects of identity. The above stances and commitments shall be broadened where relevant to other underrepresented minorities (URMs) and people of color in STEM.● For seminars, we will aim for at least one seminar per quarter to focus on community engagement in addition to science. ● For social media and scientific events, we will feature URM scientists and celebrate specific communities especially during relevant times such as Black History Month, Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, Hispanic Heritage Month, Native American Heritage Month, Women’s History Month, LGBTQ+ Pride Month, etc. ● For our undergraduate and graduate curricula, we encourage instructors to incorporate elements of anti-racism into each course where relevant to the scientific material, including perspectives from impacted communities, discussion of inequities, and texts/media from minority voices. In the coming months, we will compile relevant articles, case studies, and teaching materials that can be utilized by ESS instructors. ● In addition, we encourage everyone to evaluate how their research impacts disenfranchised communities, incorporates aspects of environmental and climate justice, and engages with affected community members in the process of research. ● In Fall 2020, we will teach a graduate seminar course (ESS 280A) dedicated to diversity and inclusion in STEM. One goal of this course will be to develop a draft code of principles for anti-racist teaching, research, and community engagement in ESS. ● Above all, we commit to listening to and learning from our community, including undergraduate and graduate students, researchers, faculty, and staff. Fourth, we want to share the resources and reporting structures available to anyone who experiences racism or other forms of discrimination on campus. The Office of Equal Opportunity and Diversity has reporting information, including an anonymous option. Other resources include CARE and DECADE, as well as faculty and staff in ESS if you are comfortable: ● Kathleen Johnson, Vice Chair of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ● Isabella Velicogna, Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, Equity, and Inclusion ● Kate Mackey, DECADE faculty mentor ● Melanie Nakanishi, Student Affairs Manager ● Eric Rignot, Chair Finally, support groups and other resources are available through the UCI Center for Black Cultures, Resources, and Research. Fifth, we recognize that individuals within our community may want to take additional actions. Here are some ideas and resources: ● Support and donate to organizations fighting anti-Black racism. ● Educate ourselves, our families, and our friends: Listen, read, learn, advocate for change, apologize when we make mistakes, repeat. ● Think carefully about how we seek police aid in our daily lives, acknowledging the potential to endanger Black people and other POC. ● Show up. As of this message, peaceful demonstrations are occurring in most cities daily, including in Irvine. ● Diversify our social media feeds; follow and share Black voices. ● Speak out and write to decision-makers about systemic injustice; support science-based policies to combat police brutality; demand police accountability, including for the UCIPD. ● Educate ourselves about diversity, equity, and inclusive excellence; root out anti-Black racism, injustice, and barriers that are pervasive within academia, including at UC Irvine.● Vote in local, state, and federal elections. Signed, Kathleen R. Johnson, Associate Professor and Vice-Chair of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Eric Rignot, Chair, Donald Bren and Chancellor's Professor of Earth System Science, and NAS Member Isabella Velicogna, Professor and Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, Equity, and Inclusion Mathieu Morlighem, Associate Professor and Vice-Chair of Undergraduate Studies Jin-Yi Yu, Professor and Vice-Chair of Graduate Studies Steven Allison, Professor of ESS and EEB, Director of Ridge to Reef Graduate Training Program James Randerson, Ralph J. and Carol M. Cicerone Professor and NAS Member Katherine Mackey, Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor and DECADE Faculty Mentor Shane Coffield and Shivani Ehrenfeucht, PhD Candidates and DECADE student representatives Robert Fofrich, Audrey Odwuor, and Nicola Wiseman, PhD Candidates/Students and Graduate Student Representatives Julie Ferguson, Associate Teaching Professor Elizabeth Crook, Assistant Teaching Professor Michael Pritchard, Associate Professor Saewung Kim, Associate Professor Charlie Zender,Professor Eric Saltzman, Professor Gudrun Magnusdottir, Professor Ellen Druffel, Fred Kavli Chair in Earth System Science, Distinguished Professor of ESS, and NAS Member Benis Egoh, Assistant Professor Michael Goulden, Professor Susan Trumbore, Professor and NAS Member Alex Guenther, Professor Paulo Brando, Assistant Professor Claudia Czimzik, Associate Professor Steve Davis, Associate Professor Francois Primeau, Professor Michael Prather, Professor Adam Martiny, Professor of ESS and EEB Murat Aydin, Associate Researcher Efi Foufoula-Georgiou Henry Samueli Endowed Chair, Distinguished Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering and ESS, member of NAYannick Peings, Assistant Researcher Keith Moore, Professor
Sonali Abraham Will Krantz

4th Year D.EnV Candidate 2nd Year Ph.D Student

Amanda Wagner Edith de Guzman

3rd Year D.EnV Candidate 2nd Year Ph.D Student

Lia Protopapadakis Paul Stainier

5th Year D.EnV Candidate lst Year Ph.D Student

Chase A. Niesner Robert Reny

2nd Year Ph.D Student lst Year D.EnV Student

Antoine Kunsch Alexandria Herr

Former 4th Year D.EnV Candidate Former lst Year Ph.D. Student

Yvonne Yock Regina Adigwe

2nd Year Ph.D Student lst Year D.EnV Student

Danielle Hoague Viraj Sawant

lst Year Ph.D. Student lst Year Ph.D Student
Margaret Isied

lst Year D.EnV Student


17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

Labov JB (2004). The challenges and opportunities for improving undergraduate science
education through introductory courses. Cell Biol Educ 3, 212—214.

Johnson AC (2007). Unintended consequences: how science profes- sors discourage
women of color. Sci Educ 91, 805—821.

Gasiewski JA, Eagan MK, Garcia GA, Hurtado S, Chang MJ (2012). From gatekeeping
to engagement: a multi-contextual, mixed meth- od study of student academic
engagement in introductory STEM courses. Res High Educ 5 3 , 229—261.

Matsui, J .T. (2018) “Outsiders at the Table”—Diversity Lessons from the Biology
Scholars Program at the University of California, Berkeley. CBE—Life Sciences
Education ° 17:es11, 1—5, Fall 2018

Constantine, M. G., Smith, L., Redington, R. M., & Owens, D. (2008). Racial
microaggressions against Black counseling and counseling psychology faculty: A central
challenge in the multicultural counseling movement. Journal of Counseling and
Development, 86(3), 348- 355.

Brown-Glaude, W. (Ed.). (2009). Doing Diversity in Higher Education: Faculty Leaders
Share Challenges and Strategies. NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY; LONDON:
Rutgers University Press. Retrieved June 27, 2020, from www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt5hj3d3
Weisshaar, K. 2017Publish and Perish? An Assessment of Gender Gaps in Promotion to
Tenure in Academia. Social Forces, Volume 96, Issue 2, December 2017, Pages
529—560, https://doi.org/10.1093/sf/sox052

Nelson, D. J. and Brammer, C. N., A national analysis of minorities in science and
engineering faculties at research universities, Final Report, 2010.

Griffin K.A. (2020) Institutional Barriers, Strategies, and Benefits to Increasing the
Representation of Women and Men of Color in the Professoriate. In: Perna L. (eds)
Higher Education: Handbook of Theory and Research. Higher Education: Handbook
of Theory and Research, vol 35. Springer, Cham

Alberts B, Cicerone RJ, Fienberg SE, Kamb A, McNutt M, Nerem RM, et al. Scientiﬁc
Integrity. Self-correction in science at work. Science 2015;348(6242):1420—2.
pmid:26113701

Warren, J. R. (2019). How much do you have to publish to get a job in a top sociology
department? Or get tenure? Trends over a generation. Sociological Science, 6, 172—196.


View signatures of support July 13, 2020 Dear all University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa Department of Oceanography Faculty Members, The upper echelons of the School of Ocean and Earth Sciences and Technology (SOEST), including graduate and post-graduate scholars, faculty, and administration within the Department of Oceanography, are predominantly white (see appendices). Of our 34 Level 3 Regular Graduate Faculty members in the department, only three identify as People of Color, and we have no faculty members who identify as Black (datafrom Ocean office). This inequity isa disservice to the pursuit of knowledge as we cannot come to understand the natural world with only a narrow Euro- and white-centric worldview. What follows are the policies we need in order for true anti-racism work to take root, and thus for diversity, equity, and inclusion action to be effective. Attempts to correct racial inequality in our department have been ineffectual. The SOEST Council on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion was established in response to a condemning external review that highlighted the inequitable treatment of women and brash dismissal of sexual assault reports within SOEST. The appointment of Anita Lopez as its interim Director was announced on April 12, 2019. Some may consider the establishment of the SOEST councilas long-overdue progress in addressing diversity issues, yet intersectionality of systemic sexism and racism at our institution has never been a significant part of the council’s discourse. The inaction of the council exemplifies the system that upholds white supremacy within the department, which excludesand thus silences Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) voices on matters of diversity. We are Black, Indigenous, and People of Color staff, student, and postdoctoral members involved with the Department of Oceanography. We have found the SOEST council to be inadequate at resolving the institutional racism present in our department, and as such, we have decided we must take action into our own hands. There must be an urgency to address institutional racism properly, and there must also be an urgent commitment to implement long-term, lasting solutions that deliver justice to marginalized groups. BIPOC and allies have made significant contributions to the department, including but not limited to GRExit, Maile Mentoring Program, Halau ola Honua, graduate student stipend increase,and SOEST external review. However, more work needs to be done. We insist that our department foster a culture and community that: values and seeks the perspectives and contributions of Black, Indigenous, and People of Color; elevates indigenous Hawaiian knowledge and its practitioners; and actively practices anti-racism.Therefore, we demand that all of our faculty, staff, postdoctoral researchers, and students be fully committed to addressing racism and dismantling the racial hierarchy pervasive within the Department of Oceanography. We make this demand with the understanding that notall members of our department may receive it well; given our group’s small numbers and diverse racial backgrounds, we expect there may be dismissal of the severity of our concerns and intense backlash due to underlying racism. The safety and wellbeing of ourselves and our oppressed community membersare at stake. We thus look to our supportive faculty, staff, postdocs,and students to use the extent of their privileges to protect members of our group and challengeany and all racism, whether implied or overt, that they may encounter among colleagues. A statement was sent out by SOEST on June 3, 2020 signed by several faculty members of the Department of Oceanography. Part of this statement included a commitment: “We are actively working to build and promote an anti-racist, anti-sexist, and anti-discriminatory environment within which all persons can feel safe and be safe every day throughout their time in our school.” In the entirety of the statement, there was no accountability taken for the racist, sexist, and discriminatory environment that persists in SOEST. There wasalso a glaring absence ofaction items to identify ways in which anti-racism work would proceed. While we will hold accountable those who signed the SOEST statement to active participation in anti-racism work, this burden should not fall only on the faculty members who offered their signatures, but on our entire department. As evidenced in part by the continued consideration and hiring of mostly white faculty, presently in our department, racism and white supremacy are the status quo. This department can only move forward after collectively acknowledging its past and present role in upholding a racist hierarchy, and dismantling institutional racism in our department cannot happen without individuals first confronting their own internalized racism. Individuals must also be properly equipped to spot and challenge racist action and inaction as they witness it. A subsequent document is in preparation and will contain examples and definitions of topics related to anti-racism work. Anti-racism work has not been actively practiced and is not an explicit policy set within our department, and this must change. In order to address this in part, we demand a mandatory annual anti-racism training for all faculty, staff, postdocs, and graduate students. From Periodic Evaluation of Oceanography Faculty: “The basis for the evaluation is continued professional growth as evidenced by the quality, ef ectiveness, and continuity of activities in the areas of teaching, research, and service.”Part of the evaluation of Oceanography faculty is based on service contributions to the department, university, the profession, and the community. To further hold faculty accountable, we demand that anti-racism work be explicitly stated in policy as part of the periodic evaluation of faculty criteria under service contributions. Many of our faculty members also serve as mentors to graduate students and postdoctoral researchers. The Faculty Guide to Mentoring Graduate Students (pp. 10-14), recommends that faculty “4. Know the common concerns of all graduate students,” and “5. Understand the diverse factors that influence students’ mentoring needs.” As the cultureand policies of our department currently stand, we cannot in good faith recommend this department to prospective BIPOC students. Another portion of the SOEST statement claims: “We acknowledge our collective history, including the racism underlying the overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom, and the need for compassion, understanding and empathy in our daily relationships.” We are left to assume thatall those who have signed the SOEST statement have been provided with sufficient education on the illegal overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom. We are also left to assume that the signers wholly understand that the many consequences of this crime, namely racism against Native Hawaiians, are longstanding, far reaching, and broadly occurring to this day. To avoid assumptions and to ensure the properand sufficient education of faculty, staff, postdocs,and graduate students, we demand that education on the history of Hawaiʻi and Native Hawaiian oppression be integrated as part of the mandatory annual anti-racism training. Our department has benefited from the unique cultural heritage, values, and resources of Native Hawaiians within whose communities we live, work, and study. We acknowledge the many forms of scientific knowledge that are indigenous to Hawaiʻi as well as their practitioners. It has been made clear that this department does notaim to fostera Hawaiian Place of Learning due to itsabsence of policy directed at upholding this value, despite this being an explicit value of the University of Hawaiʻi. In recognition of the department and the University of Hawaiʻi’s historical exclusion of Native Hawaiians, we explicitly stand against racism toward Native Hawaiians in its implied and overt forms, and we demand to see this sentiment reflected in our department’s policies. We further demand the addition of policy that amplifies the importance of Indigenous science and the involvement of Indigenous scientists. The Black population faces tremendous obstacles in the pursuit of equality due to the history of slavery, segregation, mass incarceration, and prejudice. Lack of representation of Black persons in the sciences is a symptom of both past and present injustices. Within Hawaiʻi, the population is only 2% self-identified as Black (see appendices); the second smallest racial demographic in the state. This furthers the Black challenges due to lack of community and isolation. In addition, all cultures inHawaiʻi engage in anti-black discord either through overt racism or colorism. Within the Oceanography Department, Black representation is absent not only in the bodies that walk our halls, but also in the science we study, the cultures we celebrate, and the perspectives we value. Our department is capable of elevating the Black population and we demand a commitment to this goal. On June 9, 2020, the Oceanography Department pledged to form a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion committee. While weareappreciative of theanti-racist intention, we do not support thisasa permanent solution. The members of a permanent committee would have other primary obligations as well as no formal education or experience in dealing with interpersonaland institutionalanti-racism work. We propose instead an interim Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion committee. We would like to emphasize that this will be a temporary committee and that this is not a permanent solution. This committee will be made up of individuals from faculty, staff, postdocs, and students within the Department of Oceanography. Our recommendations on the formation of this committee are in progress and will be available upon request. We are supportive of the proposal made by our Department Chair: “The charge of this committee is to identify concrete, meaningful changes that we can implement to help our department become more welcoming, diverse, representative of, and responsive to the communities we serve. So, as we discuss the formation of this committee it is crucial that we have members who are skilled at proposal writing and private foundation relations, to bring in external funds to establish programs similar to Halau ola Honua and Maile Mentoring.” We demand afull-time staff position designated to serve in our department. There is precedent for successat other institutions such as UCSD Scripps. The SOEST external review also recommended the immediate procurement of a full-time position, whereas currently, only a part-time position is filled. We are fully aware that financial resources are scarce, and that the COVID-19 pandemic has further limited potential avenues of funding; however, we do not see this as an excuse to avoid demands for justice. This presents an opportunity for committee members to seek creative financial solutions. Our aforementioned demands will be delegated to this full-time staff position,and they will see to it that our concerns are addressed and solutions are perpetually carried out. This person will prepare anti-racism trainings, aid in drafting anti-racist policy, seek ways to expand equity, diversity, and inclusion initiatives, continuously monitor progress, make diversity statistics publicly available, and revise and update procedures as the needs of the department shift. This person mustalso havean intimate understanding of the culture unique to Hawaiʻi and Native Hawaiians. Our department should seize this opportunity to serve as an example to other departments, to SOEST, and to our university as a whole.We understand the formation of an interim committee and subsequent hiring of a full-time staff will not be immediate; however, the department can still take immediate action. We demand an opportunity to hoʻoponopono with all faculty, staff, postdocs, and students facilitated by an external mediator trained in the practices of hoʻoponopono. Within two weeks, we demand a signed response to this letter from faculty. This response should also include accountability measures for uncooperative faculty. If the faculty are unable to come to a consensus on a singular document, individuals or groups may submit their responses separately. Finally, the murders of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, and Breonna Taylor, the ongoing national protests against anti-Black police brutality, and the Black Lives Matter movement have provided us with the encouragement and opportunity to make these demands. We would like to give proper credit to the contributions of the Black community, whose demands for equality led to the culmination of this document. Sincerely, (alphabetically) Petra Kim Byl Andrian Gajigan Kekuʻiapōiula Keliipuleole Andrés Esteban Salazar Estrada Ashley Hiʻilani Sanchez Eric Masa Shimabukuro Clarisse Eleanor Santos Sullivan William Hoakaokalani Thomas Thanh Van Tran (Black, Indigenous,and People of Color Graduate Students, Staff,and Postdoctoral Researchers of the Department of Oceanography and Marine Biology) Contact: uhm.marine.bipoc@gmail.comClick to sign in support Click to view signatures of supportAppendices We have used language and examples from the Letter to UCSB EEMB Faculty with Demands Toward Racial Equality written by EEMB graduate students. Detailed examples of how to carry out demands are included in their letter. Appendix I. Why we used the term demand Adapted from UCSB Demands Toward Racial Equality: We use ‘demand’: To elevate the attitudes and values associated with contemporary liberation movements in solidarity with our Black, Indigenous, and People of Color colleagues, students, staff, and mentors; To authentically center the historical struggle that Black, Indigenous, and People of Color experience when fighting for adequate resources against a backdrop of competing interests; To disrupt the overt and covert oppressive impacts that academic research has on marginalized communities around the world; and To highlight that recognizing the humanity and experiences of our Black, Indigenous, and People of Color colleagues is not something we are willing to compromise on. Appendix II. Definition of terms (Note: we are using the contemporary academic definitions of “racism” and “white supremacy.”) Racism: The belief that a particular group of people is superior over another, based on the social construct of “race,” pervasive both individually and institutionally. Individual racism is easily identifiable, while systemic racism refers to “rules, practices and customs once rooted in law with residual ef ects that reverberate throughout society” (Andra Gillespie)and “a system of hierarchy and inequity, primarily characterized by white supremacy.” https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Racism https://www.racialequitytools.org/resourcefiles/Definitions-of%20Racism.pdf White supremacy: The “political, economic and cultural system in which whites overwhelmingly control power and material resources, conscious and unconscious ideas of white superiority and entitlement are widespread, and relations of white dominance and non-whitesubordination are daily reenacted across a broad array of institutions and social settings.” - Frances Lee Ansley https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_supremacy https://www.showingupforracialjustice.org/white-supremacy-culture-characteristics.html Justice: The collective responsibility of a free and just society, to ensure that civil and human rights are preserved and protected for each individual regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, nation of origin, sexual orientation, class, physical or mental ability, and age. from UCSB Demands Toward Racial Equality: Underrepresented: Belonging to an identity group that has been historically and systematically excluded from higher education and other rights or opportunities, and is therefore currently less present or less visible in our department than they would be if the demographics of our community matched those of the broader population. Diverse: A group encompassing those who have a variety of individual and group-social identities, including but not limited to underrepresented gender identities, sexualities, ethnicities, and cultural backgrounds; socioeconomic disadvantage; Indigenous status; first-generation status; dis/ability; and neurodivergence. It is important to keep in mind intersectionality (Crenshaw, 1989), or the interconnected nature of categorizations such as those listed. Anti-racism: “The active process of identifying and eliminating racism by changing systems, organizational structures, policies and practices and attitudes, so that power is redistributed and shared equitably.” This definition highlights the importance of anti-racism as a verb, a process that requires consistent attention, internal reflection, and knowledge building. Equity: Whereas equality indicates that everyone receives the sameamount of resources, equity takes into account each person’s starting point or conditions. In an equal distribution, each person might receive one piece of bread regardless of their needs; in an equitable distribution, one would take into account whether the person has eaten yet that day, how much food they would need to survive, and allocate an appropriate amount of bread that accounts for these initial imbalances. For example, equity is important when thinking about education and mentorship, as each student comes into the program with a different background and different needs. Inclusion: The “active, intentional, and ongoing engagement with diversity,” which allows for the creation of a space where all individuals from all groups feel comfortable, safe, respected, and heard.Appendix III. 2018-2019 racial and ethnic diversity among employees in SOEST Explanatory note: SOEST racial/ethnic diversity data provided by MIRO (Manoa Institutional Research Office). UH System-wide dataisavailableat IRO. The data used for this graph can beaccessed here. If you have questions about this graph contact: agajigan@hawaii.edu. This is employees dataso it includes faculty, staffand graduate students with GA/TA/RAship. We have yet to identify a source for undergraduate diversity. We acknowledge thataggregating Asian as wellas other “races” in one group is inherently problematic. For instance, Asians are not monolithic but have unequal degrees of oppression.

should all be eager and steadfast in working together to reestablish our role as a vital
department within the Fine Arts at RISD and beyond.

Sincerely,

Class of 2021 MFA Printmaking Students
Alexis Hill

Breslin Bell

Edward Steffanni

Haley MacKeil

Mariana Ramos Ortiz

Riley Wilson

ADDENDUM

In light of the statement released on June 29th to the RISD Anti-Racism Coalition by
Printmaking Department Head Cornelia McSheehy, there are additional, very
concerning issues requiring further response. Our letter crafted for the entire
department does not directly address this most recent statement, which amplifies and
consolidates many of the concerning issues within the department. It is also full of
inaccuracies, problematic anecdotes, personal information about students and staff, and
concerning language that we do not condone or agree with. We further do not support a
statement made by one voice on behalf of the entirety of the department; students, staff,
and BIPOC community members. This department response to risdARC is a statement
which creates excuses for insufficient department diversity, and fails to acknowledge the
role of the department in systemic inequities. We as a graduate cohort are committed to
following up with our department regarding these deeper systemic concerns. We plan to
address, in more detail, this statement with our department faculty and staff directly.


Concerned Faculty
June 2, 2020
Page 7

Marcelo Suarez-Orozco -- Dean, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies
Pat Turner -- Senior Dean, College; Dean and Vice Provost, Undergraduate Education
Rhea Turteltaub -- Vice Chancellor for External Affairs

Naomi Riley -- President, Undergraduate Students Association

Jean Paul Santos -- President, Graduate Students Association

Roger Wakimoto -- Vice Chancellor for Research


proposal, we aim to establish a student task force which will serve as direct points of contact for
the faculty, reinforcing and insisting upon these demands as time elapses. A distinction between
the student representative and the student task force is necessary: while the student
representative speaks to and on behalf of RISDs undergraduate body of students, the student
task force (which can include the student representative) speaks to the apparel faculty on behalf
of apparel students and with these demands in mind. The student task force will frequently
report to SEI throughout each academic year to hold the Apparel Design Department
accountable, and to receive guidance if needed.

This is not the only structure that must form. In addition, faculty should establish a
system of accountability within themselves in conjunction with the Department Head as the
authoritative figure. The faculty should constantly revisit this proposal and review these terms
every semester to ensure these statements will be upheld and the culture of accountability on
these issues does not die down. The faculty must release statements to the Apparel student
body on what they have and have not yet accomplished. These reports should be sent out every
few months detailing what faculty members are doing, reading, learning and even their
shortcomings. Transparency is necessary. Note that these demands are not out of nowhere,
and they will not disappear.

If for any reason the faculty and staff of the RISD Apparel Design Department cannot
meet these demands and solutions stated in this proposal, an active discussion needs to
be held between the student task force and the faculty body to make adjustments and
amendments that we as a whole body see fit, though we do not wish to significantly
compromise any of our terms.

Starting in 2020, the student task force (as part of the collective student body), will be
active in holding the faculty, staff, and students accountable, and will seek to measure
and record progressive change.

As representatives on behalf of the RISD Apparel Design student body, this document
formally declares our intent for change.

We thank our current RISD Apparel Design Department’s faculty members and
administration for their reception towards our demands as stated in this proposal.
Additionally, a special thank you to Matthew Shenoda at SEI for supporting us and all of
RISD.


Calvin Howes Santiago Giraldo Cardenas

2nd year PhD student 2nd year PhD student
Clara Yidongfang Si Victor Pinto Abarzua, PhD
2nd year PhD student Alumnus

Yue Huang AViV Solodoch

5th year PhD student 6th year PhD student
Laura Thapa Kathleen Schiro, PhD

1st year PhD Student Alumnus

Xiuyuan Ding Bea Gallardo-Lacourt, PhD
1st Year Master student Alumnus

Alexandrea Arnold

3rd year PhD student

For additional signatures:

http_s :// does . goo gle . com/ document/ d/ l VNW9meI_2W_P l Xeb l yASRLzag 5mib§ 2g 2Uml2meybn
Oc/edit?usp=sharing


3. Reassertion of the Department of Justice in its statutory authority to investigate
individual instances of racial profiling, police brutality and violence; and investigate and
litigate individual law enforcement officers and police departments routinely violating civil
rights

4. Adopt sound and unbiased law enforcement policies at all levels of government that
reduce the disparate impact of police brutality, racial profiling and use of force on Black
and Brown people and other historically marginalized communities

At the state level, we demand you:

5. Create a “Special Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training” to enact
policies that certify police officers and enables the decertification of police officers for
misconduct and abuse (H2146)

6. Create an Office of Diversity and Equal Opportunity that will establish a peace officer
exam advisory board to review appointments and the promotions of police officers. As
well as establish guidelines for diversity plans for all state agencies (H2292)

7. The establishment of a commission that studies the systemic and structural racism that
has led to the disproportionate number of minorities in the criminal justice system
(H1440)

8. The adoption of clear limits for police use of force, including choke—holds, and the
requirement of both 1) independent investigations of officer—related deaths, and 2) data
collection and reporting by every department on the racial make—up of all arrests and
police uses of force

At the local level, we demand you:

9. Declare Racism as a Public Health Crisis, so that the socioeconomic and health
disparities can finally receive appropriate assessment, treatment, and financial
investment.

10. Create a Civil Review Board/Commission with subpoena power to investigate allegations
of law enforcement wrongdoing

Hoping for a just future,

The Woods Hole research community


o Acknowledge that we are a predominately white organization, ask questions about why
we have so little racial diversity in our organization, and then take steps to improve
diversity (in all its forms) at-. Are we creating an environment that welcomes
Black people or people of color? How can we improve?

0 Discuss the intersection of environmentalism and social justice, and why these issues
need to be part of our work at-.

o Diversify our collaborations:
0 Encourage scientists and others to form relationships with Historically Black

Colleges and Universities, Tribal Colleges, and minority—serving institutions for
education, outreach, and recruitment efforts.

0 Encourage - scientists to attend more meetings organized by people of
color, e.g. the National Association of Black Geoscientists (http://W\MN.nabg—
us.orgl) and Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing Conference
(http://tapiaconference.orgl).

0 Invite more Black, Latinx, Indigenous, and other people of color and scientists to
present at-.

0 Work with - to implement policies and actions to recruit Black scientists and
other underrepresented groups to apply for the Postdoc Fellowship and Visiting
Scholar programs.

Work to ensure- education and outreach is reaching underrepresented groups.

0 Make transparent how- can/does participate in .policies and lobbying. In other
words, what is our path for supporting institutional change on the University level, e.g.
the No Time For Silence actions (https://notimeforsilence.org/)

0 Look into. relations with campus police. Reconsider our own relationship with
the campus police. Reexamine and prioritize the campus resources that exist
outside of police intervention to de—escalate conflict and threats.

This list is not exhaustive but should be seen as a starting point for efforts that- will enact
over the coming weeks, months, years, and decades. We also were not able to open comment
to the full - community but think it would be valuable for- to do this. We hope that

this list can become an - _ page, open to community input and discussion, and
a starting point for action and accountability.

We are hopeful for- action. We would like to see the - Senior Leadership Team
take a leadership role on this issue, and we look foward to supporting action and progress.

Sincerely (in alphabetical order),

   


This statement comes from the Black Graduate Student Association (BGSA) and is being shared with all graduate students and graduate faculty.To all members and affiliates of the NC State community,For the sake of Black human lives, the Black Graduate Student Association (BGSA) writes this statement.White-serving racism perpetuates and propagates institutional and systemic injustices that run deeper than negative attitudes about skin color. We specify White-serving racism because the United States was organized by White people to serve White people, which has resulted in a legacy of marginalization, enslavement, and genocide of people of color. While our social world is improving, similar cycles of violence and inequality from 3, 30, and 300 years ago are still overwhelmingly active. Racism, along with too many other -isms and social phobias, are deeply embedded in our society because we exercise, benefit from, and witness them knowingly and unknowingly.Administrators, faculty members, staff, and students from NC State and other universities have broken their silence to acknowledge the ways that White-serving racism permeates our communities. Yet, after these initial reactions of outrage have subsided and the peer pressure to respond settles, what happens next? Will we allow our national legacy of sending thoughts and prayers to remain synonymous with inaction after the murders of Black people, or will we begin to implement equitable and meaningful changes that profoundly alter how we address bigotry and racially-motivated violence? We offer a few suggestions to transmute our words into action and further the anti-racist movement:To the entire NC State campus community, please use your access to information and increase your awareness of systemic racism in the United States. The same way some of us search through Pinterest for new dinner recipes, consider searching through articles about color-blind racism. The same way some of us scroll through social media sites looking at memes, funny videos, and pictures of friends, consider scrolling through and on Instagram or and on Twitter. Beyond awareness, re-evaluate your own social perspectives about people in your immediate sphere of influence. For example, as many of us support our Black students at NC State basketball and football games, reconsider your perceptions of said students as human beings beyond their physical capabilities.To Black members of the NC State community, there is over, which must be used to leverage change. Consider supporting,, or any of the other organizations linked in this statement. Also consider buying products from to invest in Black-owned businesses, services, and organizations.To NC State staff, faculty, and administrators, we encourage you to learn about Black people’s experiences in academia by exploring the hashtag on Twitter. It will be uncomfortable; many stories will shock you. You may experience cognitive dissonance, but fight the urge to rationalize, justify, or rid yourself of personal responsibility. Change begins with acknowledging that a problem exists. Learning and existing at a predominantly White institution (PWI) is not easy for many Black students. Confronting social inequities and microaggressions can sometimes feel like we are yelling into a deep void. Many of us often feel dismissed, overlooked, underappreciated, and used by our labs, departments, programs, and the University solely to superficially enhance diversity. Though we may not always communicate said feelings, we carry them with us daily. It is sometimes easier to bottle our concerns and frustrations for the sake of not disrupting class time, or prioritizing the comfort and opinions of our White colleagues, students whom we teach, faculty members, and administrators. Most of the time we are simply protecting our own sanity.To NC State staff, faculty and administrators, we recommend an initial mandatory bias training for all NC State employees. This training would be required during onboarding for new employees henceforth. Diversity and inclusion measures should be incorporated within the hiring process to ensure new hires espouse NC State’s core value of “.” We suggest that search committees use an anti-racist lens to avoid socially biased hiring decisions. We also seek inclusive thought and practice amongst our faculty. We suggest that faculty members, regardless of their field, be adept in anti-racist literature and social justice initiatives connected to their research. Information and academic research about our social world should not be confined to humanities and social science scholars.To all NC State community members and affiliates, allyship can create immediate change. Being an effective ally means delving deeper than surface-level performative acts. Allyship should incorporate genuinely acknowledging, respecting, and preserving the dignity and humanity of others. The intentional or unintentional denial of Black people’s experiences by saying “I don’t see color” or “all lives matter” erases those experiences and perpetuates willful ignorance. Allyship across race and other social identity markers must entail identifying the subconscious standards of our social world to which we subscribe. After identification, each of us must deliberately counteract our thoughts and actions that perpetuate any given issue(s)Unraveling and counteracting social inequality is a discomforting, but constant process. As Black grad students at a PWI, we have had to involuntarily learn to live with discomfort. With that in mind, we ask all readers to leave your comfort zones and challenge the status quo, just as historically marginalized people always have to do. Ultimately, this statement is not intended to prompt guilt, shame, or sympathy. This statement was crafted to incite a paradigm shift for people who are not already operating with an intersectional and anti-racist worldview. Consider the differential consequences of social inequality to be a wound for Black people. Empathy acknowledges the wound, but healing happens through changed mindsets and behaviors.Resources for Effective Allyship: Organizations to Donate to: Signed,The Black Graduate Student AssociationThe Graduate Student Association (in solidarity and support)
at this institution. If Carleton is sincere in its commitment to cultural and racial diversity, this
institution must include anti—racist and Black—centered programs, organizations, and structures
to ensure black students on and off campus feel supported and welcomed.

Standing in Black Power,

Black Student Alliance

African and Caribbean Association

Men of Color

Africana Studies Student Department Advisors


To our elected officials, We, as members of the Woods Hole research community and those who support it, are  outraged by the constant pain and suffering that our Black colleagues, mentors, students,  friends, and family must endure. Police brutality and white supremacy have been tormenting the  Black community for far too long, and enough is enough. It is truly disheartening that these  cases are part of the “American” norm where 1,276 black people have been killed by on-duty  police officers since January 1st, 2015.1 Black men are killed by police at a rate 2.5 times  greater than white Americans, despite being less likely to be armed.2 It goes without saying that  Black Americans are incarcerated at a rate five times greater than White Americans.3 We say  their names with love and in solidarity with their communities: George Floyd, Breonna Taylor,  Ahmaud Arbery, Philando Castile, Tamir Rice, and Eric Garner, among others.  The onset of SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19 disease) has shone light on the immense racial and  social disparities imposed on Black communities through our healthcare system. COVID-19  racial tracking data highlights that Black Americans are dying at a disproportionate rate, nearly  two times their population share, than White Americans.4 We understand that this is the result of  historic and systemic racism that is deeply rooted in our history as a nation, including policies  like redlining and the G.I. Bill.  Our very own research institutions are no exception. The research community of Woods Hole  has a long history of discrimination and bias towards people of color in the sciences. This is  showcased in the 2018 Diversity and Inclusion Report and Recommendations, written by Robert  Livingston and commissioned by the Woods Hole Science Institutions. In our Woods Hole  community, Robert Livingston clearly lays out the dearth of diversity, absence of cultural  competency, lack of psychological safety, presence of overt racism and  aggressions/microaggressions, and the presence of apathy.5 However, the research community  commits itself to listen, learn, and take actionable steps to dismantle the systemic racism  plaguing our Black communities. We support organizations that are committing themselves to  the end of the disenfranchisement of Black communities across the nation.  Here, we request that you, as our elected official, commit to support policies that redirect a  portion of police funding to supporting social services including mental health counseling, social  workers, medical professionals, and educational professionals. Also, we urge you to commit to  this 10 point plan proposed by the Massachusetts Black and Latino Caucus for the justice of our  Black communities. At the federal level, we demand you:  1. Pass congresswoman Pressley’s Resolution to condemn police brutality, racial profiling  and the excessive use of force 2. Improve oversight and independent investigations to hold individual law enforcement  officers and police departments accountable 1Tate, J., Jenkins, J., & Rich, S. (2020, January 22). Fatal Force: Police shootings database. Retrieved from  https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/investigations/police-shootings-database/ 2Edwards, F., Lee, H., & Esposito, M. (2019). Risk of being killed by police use of force in the United States by age, race–ethnicity,  and sex. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 116(34), 16793–16798. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1821204116 3Criminal Justice Fact Sheet. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.naacp.org/criminal-justice-fact-sheet/ 4The COVID Racial Data Tracker. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://covidtracking.com/race 5Mizes-Tan, S. (2019, December 16). Woods Hole Science Institutions Stung by Diversity Report: 'Preponderance of Overt Racism'.  3. Reassertion of the Department of Justice in its statutory authority to investigate  individual instances of racial profiling, police brutality and violence; and investigate and  litigate individual law enforcement officers and police departments routinely violating civil  rights 4. Adopt sound and unbiased law enforcement policies at all levels of government that  reduce the disparate impact of police brutality, racial profiling and use of force on Black  and Brown people and other historically marginalized communities At the state level, we demand you: 5. Create a “Special Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training” to enact  policies that certify police officers and enables the decertification of police officers for  misconduct and abuse (H2146) 6. Create an Office of Diversity and Equal Opportunity that will establish a peace officer  exam advisory board to review appointments and the promotions of police officers. As  well as establish guidelines for diversity plans for all state agencies (H2292) 7. The establishment of a commission that studies the systemic and structural racism that  has led to the disproportionate number of minorities in the criminal justice system  (H1440) 8. The adoption of clear limits for police use of force, including choke-holds, and the  requirement of both 1) independent investigations of officer-related deaths, and 2) data  collection and reporting by every department on the racial make-up of all arrests and  police uses of force At the local level, we demand you: 9. Declare Racism as a Public Health Crisis, so that the socioeconomic and health  disparities can finally receive appropriate assessment, treatment, and financial  investment.  10. Create a Civil Review Board/Commission with subpoena power to investigate allegations  of law enforcement wrongdoing Hoping for a just future, The Woods Hole research community
Student Legal Services — SEC 232
541-737-4165

asosu@accessthelaw.org

ngﬂgm @2020 Oregon State University
Disclaimer



9. Support for alumni and recent graduates of color: The fields of Ecology,
Evolutionary, and Marine Biology can be difficult for people of color to work in after
graduation, as the workplace often lacks ethnic and racial diversity. As the only person of
color in the workplace, diverse graduates can expect to be the sole "representative" of
their respective culture in the workplace. In addition, diverse environmental professionals
are often tasked with self—advocacy and fighting for inclusivity in the workplace in
addition to our regular duties. These additional mental and emotional burdens are a
systemic problem in both academia and within the workplace, and these struggles surely
cause many students from marginalized identities to leave academia and/or exit the
environmental (and STEM) fields.

To ease the transition of EEMB students into the workforce, EEMB administration should
create a strong EEMB alumni of color network by establishing a formal mentorship
program for students of color who are looking for support and advice in the workplace
and academia.

10. Improve diverse recruitment and support for underrepresented postdoctoral
scholars in EEMB: As an institution committed to training the next generation of
environmental leaders and researchers, EEMB has a duty to recruit, train, and retain
racial and ethnic minority postdoctoral scientists at a pivotal point in their careers. These
scientists create a diverse recruitment pool for tenure—track faculty and lecturers for the
department and greater environmental sciences field.

As a school committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment, we implore you to heed
to the actionable demands we thoughtfully outlined.

Sincerely,
Jasmine Childress, lmani Russell, Terence Leach, Adriane McDonald, and Nicola Paul
(Black Graduate Students of EEMB)



Additional Resources and Reading

1. Boys and Girls Club of Dane County:

https://WWW.bgcdc.org/programs/school—based—programs
2. UW— Madison Precollege Enrichment Opportunity Program for Learning Excellence:

https://peopleprogram.wisc.edu/
3. WISELI ‘Breaking the Bias Habit’ workshop:

https://Wiseli.wisc.edu/workshops/bbh—inclusive—campus/
4. UNEION 101 syllabus and materials:

htt s: www.ucar.edu Who—we—are diversit —inclusion communit —resources uneion—101

5. Project Implicit: https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/takeatest.html
Trujillo, G. & K.D. Tanner. Considering the role of affect in learning: Monitoring students’

 

self—efficacy, sense of belonging, and science identity. Lz'ﬁ Sciences Education. 2017; 13(1).
https://doi.org/10. 1 187/cbe.13—12—0241



Signatures of Department of Physics Faculty and Staﬁ, in solidarity:

James Analytis (Faculty)
Carlos Bustamante (Staff)
Kathleen Cooney (Staff)
Barbara J acak (Professor)
Brett Laugtug (Staff)
Simon Leaver—Appelman (Staff)
Kathy Lee (Staff)

Joelle Miles (Staff)
Elizabeth Nakahama (Staff)
Donna Sakima (Staff)
Claudia Trujillo (Staff)



A. Supporting the Black Student Union and their campaign for the removal of the
Abraham Lincoln statue (support BSU demands).29 30
B. Support racial justice initiatives in professional societies (Ecological Society,

Society for the Study of Evolution, Entomological Society of America,31=32 and
others).

C. Supporting increased access to and diversity of staff members in mental health
resources for all students.

D. Such support should take the form of public departmental statements, lending
space and resources to student movements when possible, making donations,
attending events in solidarity with activists, and more.

In closing, we would like to recognize that given the lack of diversity within the graduate student
population of the Department of Integrative Biology, we make these demands primarily through

a lens of white accountability. Our statement represents an acknowledgement of the maintenance
of white supremacy within our department and offers clear actions to begin to implement anti—

racist practices in a timely manner. Anti-racist work can be uncomfortable. That discomfort is
indicative of being challenged in our white privilege, and we must progress through that
discomfort in order to better follow an anti—racist agenda. We hope to use our statement to
engage with BIPOC organizations, faculty, and students across campus and the broader Madison
community to ensure that the needs of our colleagues are reﬂected in this document and
appropriately addressed. Therefore, we recognize that this is a document that has the capacity to
change to best serve our BIPOC colleagues. We look forward to open dialogue within our

department and seeing these actions implemented, as we have a lot of work to do.

Sincerely,

The graduate students of the Department of Integrative Biology at the University of Wisconsin —
Madison

A list of signatories is available here.

29 Meyerhofer, Kelly. June 3 0, 2020. “Universig of Wisconsin students call for removal of Abraham Lincoln statue
on Madison campus.” Chicago Tribune.

30 Reid, Amy. June 25,2020. “UW-Madison students call for removal of Lincoln statue, ‘Just because he was anti-
slavem doesn’t mean he was pro-B lack’ .” Channel 3 000.

31 Tai, Hamsberger, Kochanski, Lowe, McIntosh, and Iuliano. 120201.

32 Entomological Society of America. “Change the name of the Linnaean Games: Entomological Societyof
America. Changeorg.


Individual endorsements (CLICK HERE TO SIGN):


A Google document has been put together by one of the graduate students in the department to
provide resources that can be utilized to educate ourselves on how to be better allies that can

be shared with anyone interested to learn.

We know that the change will take an adjustment and some time, but there is a need for
change. We hope that you will stand up with us and be advocates for eliminating the systemic
racism present within our fields and in our department. As a first step, we would like to invite
everyone (faculty, students, and staff) to an open forum WebEx meeting (to be scheduled in a
follow—up email) centered around a discussion of systemic racism and steps forward for change.

We hope you will join us.
Sincerely,

Amanda Rudolph and Adeene Denton
Co—Signed by:

[31 graduate students whose names I removed for sharing purposes]


ASOSU - Associated Students of Oregon State University ASOSU for Black Lives Matter To our Oregon State Community, WAKE UP. SPEAK UP. WE NEED TO BE BETTER. Our hearts are heavy with what has been happening around the country. There are no words that can express how dicult and surreal these times are. As the Associated Students of Oregon State University we are in solidarity with Black Lives Matter and are here to advocate for OSU students, especially in times like these. We mourn alongside you about the unjust stolen life of George Floyd. We must also say the names of Tony McCade, Duanna Johnson, Breonna Taylor, Trayvon Martin, Atatiana Jeerson, Korryn Gaines, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Michael Brown, Tanisha Anderson, Ahmaud Arbery and countless more... We recognize that we cannot claim that we represent all the students of OSU if we do not speak about racial injustice and systems of violence and oppression that threaten our students. As the ASOSU we do not tolerate discrimination on the basis of ability, age, color, ethnicity, gender identity/expression, marital status, national origin, parental status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, citizenship status, or veteran status... As the ASOSU we condemn these actions that terrorize and traumatize our Black Students. There are many systemic issues of injustice that damage the physical and psychological well being of our Black Students. This is nothing new. Police brutality, intimidation, and acts of racism constantly pose a direct threat to our Black Students, faculty and sta. How do we expect generational trauma to remain bottled up? How can we expect these feelings of constant anger, belittlement and injustice to manifest themselves in a digestible way for mass media? The current demonstrations have shown us that we are living in a global civil rights movement. These acts of solidarity have been nothing short of impressive, brave, beautiful and powerful. If you are participating in these demonstrations, please remember that we continue to be in a/ global pandemic and it is important to protect yourselves and others from COVID-19 by wearing a mask and following social distancing guidelines. Practice self-quarantine following participation and if you are able, and please get tested for the virus if you can. Remember, this ght is a marathon, not a sprint. We also understand that these past few months have been dicult - a worldwide pandemic has overwhelmed and thrown us into an uncertain future. This virus has further exposed the systemic inequalities in our society. We will get through this and come out STRONGER TOGETHER. As the ASOSU, as your peers, as your neighbors, as your community, as students, as people, from the bottom of our hearts we are declaring our support. Our ASOSU administration is in solidarity with Black Lives Matter and are here to advocate for you. Allies, please remember your place in these spaces of advocacy and recognize your privilege. Take the time to educate yourselves on the racist history of Oregon and this country. Find resources and organizations that you can help promote and contribute to. Amplify and elevate Black voices, grassroots organizations and activists. Follow their leadership as you support this ght. Faculty we ask you to listen to your students, to support and comprehend, but most importantly be HERE NOW for us. Students, we have created an email template where you can insert your name and information to send to your professors. There’s so much that we want to do and provide you with, we want to go beyond making a statement and challenge ourselves as the ASOSU. We are currently brainstorming and researching ways to better provide sustainable resources to our Black Community. As in the ASOSU mission, we are committed to the growth and development of our student body, and we are constantly looking to improve our engagement methods. We welcome feedback and ideas for how we can help cultivate open communication between students and campus administrators. Please take time for yourself and practice self-care. ASOSU is here for YOU. BLACK FUTURES MATTER. BLACK CHILDREN MATTER. BLACK DREAMS MATTER. BLACK TRANS LIVES MATTER. BLACK LIVES MATTER./ Isabel Nuñez Pérez & Metzin Rodriguez ASOSU President & ASOSU Vice President asosu.pres@oregonstate.edu & asosu.vp@oregonstate.edu We have added a few links to information, funds, petitions and other OSU resources: Healing Resources for Black, Indigenous,& People Of Color organizers & Allies Taking Action for Black Lives Black Lives Matters Join Campaign Zero ON-CAMPUS RESOURCES AVAILABLE TO ALL STUDENTS: Counseling and Psychological Services Beavers Support Network Wellness Coaching Human Services Resource Center Student Health Services Academic Success Center SOL: LGBTQ+ Multicultural support Network Diversity and Cultural Engagement AYA: Womxn of Color support Network EMAIL TEMPLATE FOR SENDING TO PROFESSORS & INSTRUCTORS Email template for students Contact Info Associated Students of Oregon State University Student Government - SEC 250 541-737-6300 asosu@oregonstate.edu SafeRide - SEC 108 541-737-5000 saferide@oregonstate.edu Oce of Advocacy - SEC 228 541-737-9200 asosu.advocacy@oregonstate.edu/ Student Legal Services - SEC 232 541-737-4165 asosu@accessthelaw.org Copyright ©2020 Oregon State University Disclaimer/ 
Proposed Changes to Promote Racial and Gender Equity and Improve Domestic-International Student Relations in the Department of Atmospheric Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The following individuals have provided feedback on this document: Amy Chen, Anonymous, Carolina Bieri, Chu-Chun Chen, Divyansh Chug, Eunkyoung Choi, Holly Mallinson, Javier Villegas Bravo, Jeffrey Thayer, Jessica Gasparik, Jun Zhang, Lina Rivelli Zea, Puja Roy, Rose Miller, Dr. Swarnali SanyalTABLE OF CONTENTS MOTIVATION DEFINITIONS OF RELEVANT TERMINOLOGY DATA SUMMARIES SHORT-TERM CHANGES (within 1 year) LONG-TERM CHANGES (beyond 1 year) CONCLUSION ENDORSEMENTS RESOURCES REFERENCES 1MOTIVATION We, graduate students in the Department of Atmospheric Sciences (DAS) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC), propose the following actions and policy changes to promote racial and gender equity and improve domestic-international student relations in our department. We believe that pervasive and persistent racism in the United States requires us to voice these concerns in a constructive and unified manner. This also requires us to be explicitly and unequivocally anti-racist as an academic organization. We believe that traditionally and persistently low participation of racial and ethnic minorities, women, and gender minorities in geoscience requires that we take action. Compared to other scientific disciplines, geoscience is one of the least diverse.1, 2 Moreover, there has been little to no improvement in the representation of racial and ethnic minorities in approximately the last 40 years.3 We believe that we must address these disparities in the name of scientific progress. Scientific communities with a diversity of viewpoints are more successful overall.4, 5 To truly benefit the human populations they serve, scientists should reflect the demographics of these populations. We believe that we must promote racial and gender equity to support non-white and non-male members of our scientific community. Doing so requires that we work to eliminate conscious and subconscious biases. Research has shown that scientific contributions from underrepresented minority* (URM) students are often devalued, inhibiting their professional growth.6 Moreover, non-white, female, and gender minority students experience instances of bias which affect their quality of life and can prompt them to exit STEM fields prematurely.7 We believe that the modest inclusion of non-white, female, and gender minority students can be improved in DAS. We seek to create an environment which fosters inclusivity regardless of race, ethnicity, national origin, gender identity, disability, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, or membership in another vulnerable group of society. This is necessary to ensure professional advancement, personal well-being and authentic human development of marginalized groups in our scientific community. To increase diversity and inclusion of non-white, female, and gender minority students in DAS, we propose the changes described below. These changes include short- and long-term approaches. We hope that this document helps DAS acknowledge the urgency to advance these proposals for dialogue and action for the inclusion of all scientists, regardless of background. *For the purposes of this document, the definition of underrepresented minority (URM) is the same as the definition provided by the UIUC Graduate College. The Graduate College defines URM as “domestic students who self-identify as American Indian/Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, Black/African American, or Hispanic/Latino.” 2DEFINITIONS OF RELEVANT TERMINOLOGY For convenience and clarity, below are relevant definitions as provided by the listed source. Equality: “The measure of sameness; being treated in the same way.” Source: Racial Equity Glossary, UW LEND seminar series http://depts.washington.edu/lend/seminars/core/archive/winter/winter2019.html http://depts.washington.edu/lend/pdfs/3_Racial_Equity_Glossary.pdf Equity: “A measure of fair treatment, opportunities and outcomes across race, gender, class and other dynamics.” Note on equality vs. equity: “This distinction is important. We are told that to be fair we must treat everyone the same (equal), however, when we recognize the legacy of institutionalized and structural racism we understand that differing people and communities need different resources (equity). In order to be equitable we provide specific, unique resources that will support people and communities getting their basic needs met and reaching their full potential. Sameness is not always fairness if the oppressed group remains disadvantaged.” Source: Racial Equity Glossary, UW LEND seminar series http://depts.washington.edu/lend/seminars/core/archive/winter/winter2019.html http://depts.washington.edu/lend/pdfs/3_Racial_Equity_Glossary.pdf Gender identity: “A person's perception of having a particular gender, which may or may not correspond with their birth sex.” Source: Oxford Languages https://www.lexico.com/definition/gender_identity Gender minority: A person with a gender identity not recognized by the binary definitions of male or female, including transgender, non-binary and intersex. 3Implicit bias: “The unconscious attitudes, stereotypes and unintentional actions (positive or negative) towards members of a group merely because of their membership in that group.” Source: Anti-Defamation League (ADL) https://www.adl.org/education/race-perception-and-implicit-bias Marginalized: “Treated as insignificant or peripheral.” Source: Oxford Languages https://www.lexico.com/en/definition/marginalized Microaggression: “A statement, action, or incident regarded as an instance of indirect, subtle, or unintentional discrimination against members of a marginalized group such as a racial or ethnic minority.” Source: Oxford Languages https://www.lexico.com/en/definition/microaggression Minority-serving institutions (MSIs): “Institutions of higher education that serve minority populations.” A list of these institutions is available here. Source: https://www.doi.gov/pmb/eeo/doi-minority-serving-institutions-program Person of color (POC): “A person who is not white or of European parentage.” Source: Oxford Languages https://www.lexico.com/en/definition/person_of_color Underrepresented minority (URM): “URM is defined as domestic students who self-identify as American Indian/Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, African American, or Hispanic/Latino.” Source: UIUC GradData https://emails.illinois.edu/newsletter/174031.html 4DATA SUMMARIES DAS Graduate Application Statistics for 2006 - 20198 **Percentages rounded **Note: UIUC does not report these data broken down by race/ethnicity or domestic/international student status. **Note: 2006 is chosen as the starting point for these statistics since that is the first year these data were provided. Summary of Figures: ● From 2006 to 2019, the percentage of female M.S. applicants was always smaller than the percentage of male applicants (Fig. 1). This is also true for Ph.D. applicants for most years (Fig. 2). ● Since 2013, the percentage of female M.S. acceptees has been consistently lower than that of female M.S. applicants (Fig. 1), likely being a contributing factor in the decreasing female-to-male M.S. student enrollment ratio. ● In some years (2006, 2014, 2019), the percentage of female M.S. acceptees was much smaller than the percentage of female M.S. applicants (Fig. 1). ● In some years (2006, 2009), the percentage of female Ph.D. acceptees was much smaller than the percentage of female Ph.D. applicants (Fig. 2). ● The gender breakdown is more consistent among M.S. or Ph.D. applicants compared to acceptees and enrollees. ● There is no clear trend towards an equal gender breakdown for any category (applicants, acceptees, or enrollees). Figure 1. Yearly percentages of female and male M.S. applicants, acceptees (applicants accepted into the program), and enrollees (acceptees newly enrolled as a student) for DAS. Note that the listed year refers to the academic year beginning that fall and continuing into the following spring (e.g. 2005 refers to the 2005-2006 academic year). 5Figure 2. Yearly percentages of female and male Ph.D. applicants, acceptees (applicants accepted into the program), and enrollees (acceptees newly enrolled as a student) for DAS. Note that the listed year refers to the academic year beginning that fall and continuing into the following spring (e.g. 2005 refers to the 2005-2006 academic year). Summary of DAS Student Enrollment Statistics for Fall 2004 - Spring 20208 **Percentages rounded **These data only include the racial and ethnic makeup of domestic students, since UIUC does not report these statistics for international students. **Note: Fall 2004 was chosen as the starting point for these statistics since that was the first semester M.S. and Ph.D. students were separately categorized. Undergraduate Program in Atmospheric Sciences ● Of all undergraduate students, 98% were domestic and 2% were international students. ● Of all undergraduate students: ○ 63% identified as male ○ 37% identified as female ● Self-reported race/ethnicity of domestic students: ○ 76% identified as White ○ 5% identified as Asian-American ○ 3% identified as Black/African-American ○ 12% identified as Hispanic/Latino ○ 3% identified as Multiracial ○ <1% identified as Native American 6○ 0% identified as Hawaiian/Pacific Islander Master’s Program in Atmospheric Sciences ● Of all Master’s students, 88% were domestic and 12% were international students. ● Of all Master’s students: ○ 63% identified as male ○ 37% identified as female ● Self-reported race/ethnicity of domestic students: ○ 89% identified as White ○ 3% identified as Asian-American ○ 1% identified as Black/African-American ○ 4% identified as Hispanic/Latino ○ 2% identified as Multiracial ○ 0% identified as Native American ○ 0% identified as Hawaiian/Pacific Islander Ph.D. Program in Atmospheric Sciences ● Of all Ph.D. students, 44% were domestic and 56% were international students. ● Of all Ph.D. students: ○ 60% identified as male ○ 40% identified as female ● Self-reported race/ethnicity of domestic students: ○ 86% identified as White ○ 3% identified as Asian-American ○ 1% identified as Black/African-American ○ 7% identified as Hispanic/Latino ○ 0% identified as Multiracial ○ 0% identified as Native American ○ 0% identified as Hawaiian/Pacific Islander DAS Student Enrollment Figures for Fall 2004 - Spring 20208 **Percentages rounded **These data only include the racial and ethnic makeup of domestic students, since UIUC does not report these statistics for international students. **Note: Fall 2004 was chosen as the starting point for these statistics since that was the first semester M.S. and Ph.D. students were separately categorized. 7● The DAS female-to-male student ratio has decreased to 1-to-3 since 2013 for M.S. students and since 2015 for Ph.D. students (noting small total enrollment fluctuations; Fig. 3), after having been nearly equal from 2007-2013 (Fig. 4). ● The DAS domestic student enrollment remains disproportionately white (~75%) at every degree level, despite a slow decline in the proportion of white students over time (Figs. 5-7). ● The DAS non-white student enrollment at the graduate level has not significantly changed over time (Figs. 6-7) and remains disproportionately low on average compared with U.S. population demographics. ● The DAS B.S. non-white student enrollment has been consistent or increasing slowly over time (Fig. 5), which indicates a potential “pipeline” issue in which non-white students are enrolling in the B.S. program but not pursuing graduate degrees. ● With DAS international student enrollment slowly increasing over time at the undergraduate level and being consistently large at the graduate level (Fig. 8), it is crucial to create policies and activities that foster inclusion of this significant group of the DAS student body. Figure 3. UIUC DAS total student enrollment (# of students) from Fall 2004 to Spring 2020 for each degree level. Note that the DAS undergraduate program was started in 2008. 8Figure 4. UIUC DAS student enrollment by gender (women and men; %) from Fall 2004 to Spring 2020 for each degree level. Note that the DAS undergraduate program was started in 2008. *Hawaiian/Pacific Islander and Multiracial were not included as categories until Fall 2010. Figure 5. UIUC DAS B.S. domestic student enrollment by race/ethnicity (%) from Fall 2004 to Spring 2020. Note that the DAS undergraduate program was started in 2008. 9*Hawaiian/Pacific Islander and Multiracial were not included as categories until Fall 2010. Figure 6. UIUC DAS M.S. domestic student enrollment by race/ethnicity (%) from Fall 2004 to Spring 2020. *Hawaiian/Pacific Islander and Multiracial were not included as categories until Fall 2010. Figure 7. UIUC DAS Ph.D. domestic student enrollment by race/ethnicity (%) from Fall 2004 to Spring 2020. 10Figure 8. UIUC DAS student enrollment by domestic and international student status (%) from Fall 2004 to Spring 2020 for each degree level. Students with an “unknown” status are not included, yielding a sum of <100% for some semesters for some degree levels. Note that the DAS undergraduate program was started in 2008. Summary of NSF Statistics on Women, Minorities, and Persons with Disabilities in Science and Engineering (2019)2 **Percentages rounded **These data only include the racial and ethnic makeup of domestic students receiving degrees, since the NSF does not report these statistics for international students. Bachelor’s Degrees in Atmospheric Sciences ● In 2016, 714 Bachelor’s degrees in atmospheric science were awarded in the United States, 236 (33%) of which were awarded to female students (Table 5-2). ● Of the domestic, female students receiving a Bachelor’s (Table 5-4): ○ 189 (80%) identified as White ○ 15 (6%) identified as Hispanic or Latino ○ 10 (4%) identified as Black or African American ○ 4 (2%) identified as Asian ○ 1 (0.4%) identified as Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander ○ No degrees were awarded to American Indian or Alaska Native women. ● Of the domestic, male students receiving a Bachelor’s (Table 5-5): ○ 386 (81%) identified as White ○ 24 (5%) identified as Hispanic or Latino ○ 12 (3%) identified as Black or African American ○ 18 (4%) identified as Asian ○ 1 (0.2%) identified as American Indian or Alaska Native ○ No degrees were awarded to Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander men. 11Master’s Degrees in Atmospheric Sciences ● In 2016, 220 Master’s degrees in atmospheric sciences were awarded in the United States (Table 6-1), 76 (35%) of which were awarded to female students (Table 6-4) . ● Of the women receiving a Master’s, 55 (72%) were domestic students, and 21 (28%) were temporary residents (i.e. international students). ● Of the domestic, female students (Table 6-4): ○ 44 (80%) identified as White ○ 2 (4%) identified as Hispanic or Latino ○ 2 (4%) identified as Asian ○ No degrees were awarded to Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, or American Indian or Alaska Native women. ● Of the men receiving a Master’s, 121 (84%) were domestic students, and 23 (16%) were temporary residents (i.e. international students). ● Of the domestic, male students (Table 6-5): ○ 101 (83%) identified as White ○ 6 (5%) identified as Hispanic or Latino ○ 3 (3%) identified as Black or African American ○ 2 (2%) identified as Asian ○ No degrees were awarded to Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander or American Indian or Alaska Native men. PhDs in Atmospheric Sciences ● In 2016, 142 PhDs in atmospheric sciences were awarded in the United States (Table 7-1), of which 51 (36%) were awarded to female students (Table 7-2). ● Of all Ph.D. recipients, 96 (68%) were domestic students and 46 (32%) were temporary residents (i.e. international students) (Table 7-4). ● Of all domestic Ph.D. recipients (i.e. male & female) (Table 7-4): ○ 73 (76%) identified as White ○ 8 (8%) identified as Hispanic or Latino ○ 6 (6%) identified as Black or African American ○ 5 (5%) identified as Asian ○ No degrees were awarded to Native Hawaiians or Pacific Islander or American Indian or Alaska Native recipients. 12Summary of DAS & NSF Degrees Awarded for 2006 - 20162,8 **These data only include the racial and ethnic makeup of UIUC domestic students, since UIUC does not report these statistics for international students. **Note: A gender and demographics breakdown is not provided by the UIUC Division of Management Information if 3 or fewer students graduated that year. As such, the data is represented as zero on figures for those years. **The population percentage for each group is from 2016 and taken for the 18-24 year old demographic. **The percentage of all STEM degrees awarded to international students is computed using Table 7-4 of the NSF Women, Minorities, and Persons with Disabilities Report (2019). ● For B.S. degree recipients, DAS has a higher percentage awarded to Hispanic/Latino and Asian American students and a lower percentage of degrees awarded to white students compared to the NSF average for atmospheric science programs (Figs. 9-10). However, a higher percentage of B.S. degrees were awarded to white students in DAS compared to their representation in the U.S. population (Fig. 9). ○ During this time period, DAS has awarded no B.S. degrees to African American students (Fig. 10). ● Conversely, DAS awards fewer M.S. and Ph.D. degrees to non-white students than the NSF average (Fig. 12). This could indicate a “pipeline” problem similar to what is suggested above by the DAS student enrollment statistics. ○ During this time period, there were 6 years where no M.S. degrees were awarded to students of color. For years in which an M.S. degree was awarded to a domestic, non-white student, only 1 student is represented in each ethnic group so while the percent of students of a certain race or ethnicity awarded a degree are relatively high, only 1 student represents this demographic (Fig. 12). ○ A race/ethnicity breakdown of Ph.D. graduates is not included since those who were not international students were white (in years with more than 3 graduates), thus it is imperative to actively seek ways to diversify the Ph.D. program. ● DAS consistently had fewer female B.S. degree recipients than the NSF average for atmospheric science programs and has worked to close this gap (Fig. 14). However, women are still awarded less than 40% of B.S. degrees in DAS and nationally. ● While there is strong year-to-year variation in M.S. female degree recipients in DAS (attributed to the low total number of M.S. graduates; Fig. 14), the average for this time period for DAS is ~49%, which is higher than the NSF average (~39%). ○ On average, DAS also awarded a higher percentage of Ph.D. degrees to female students (~33%) than the NSF average (~30%) ● Nearly 50% of all Ph.D. graduates in this time period are international students (Fig. 13), thus it is crucial to create policies and activities that foster inclusion of this significant group of the DAS student body (as also shown by the DAS student enrollment statistics above). 13Figure 9. Comparison of bachelor’s degrees awarded to students identifying as Caucasian in DAS (blue) and the national average (NSF; red) for 2010-2016. The black bar shows the percent of the U.S. population aged 18-24 years old that identifies as Caucasian versus the 2010-2016 average for both DAS and NSF. Note: The DAS undergraduate program was not created until 2008 and thus did not award more than three bachelor’s degrees until 2010. Figure 10. Comparison of bachelor’s degrees awarded to students identifying as Hispanic (oranges), Asian American (blues), and African American (greens) for DAS (medium shades) and the national average (NSF; lighter shades) for 2010-2016. The dark shaded bars on the left in the “06-16 Averages” column show the percent of the U.S. population that identifies as Hispanic, Asian American, and African American aged 18-24 years old versus the 2010-2016 average for both DAS and NSF. Note: The DAS undergraduate program was not created until 2008 and thus did not award more than three bachelor’s degrees until 2010. 14Figure 11. Comparison of master’s degrees awarded to students identifying as Caucasian in DAS (blue) and the national average (NSF; red) for 2006-2016. The black bar shows the percent of the U.S. population aged 18-24 years old that identifies as Caucasian versus the 2010-2016 average for both DAS and NSF. Figure 12. Comparison of master’s degrees awarded to students identifying as Hispanic (oranges), Asian American (blues), and African American (greens) for DAS (medium shades) and the national average (NSF; lighter shades) for 2006-2016. The dark shaded bars on the left in the “06-16 Averages” column show the percent of the U.S. population that identifies as Hispanic, Asian American, and African American aged 18-24 years old versus the 2010-2016 average for both DAS and NSF. 15Figure 13. Comparison of master’s (dark shades) and doctoral (light shades) degrees awarded to international students DAS (blues) and the national average (NSF; reds) for 2006-2016. The purple bars on the left in the “06-16 Averages” column show the percent of all STEM degrees awarded in the U.S. to international students at the master’s and doctorate level versus the average for both DAS and NSF for the 2006-2016 period. 16Figure 14. Comparison of bachelor’s, (dark shades), master’s (medium shades) and doctoral (light shades) degrees awarded to females in DAS (blues) and the national average (NSF; reds) for 2006-2016. The bars on the left in the “06-16 Averages” column show the average for both DAS and NSF for all degree levels during this time period. *Note: The UIUC B.S. % female average is taken from 2010-2016 to take into account the program start date. 17SHORT-TERM CHANGES (within 1 year) **Note: These changes are not listed in order of significance. DAS-related Changes 1. Develop an anonymous Graduate Student Survey administered during Fall 2020 that deals solely with instances of bias within our department. To ensure an adequate response rate, the survey will be concise and require multiple-choice answers to statements (e.g., a range from strongly agree to strongly disagree) and questions (e.g., yes or no). Possible statements/questions include: ○ Students are respected regardless of their race/ethnicity. ○ Students are respected regardless of their national origin. ○ Students are respected regardless of their gender identity. ○ Students are respected regardless of their sexual orientation. ○ Students are respected regardless of their disabilities. ○ Students are respected regardless of their social class. ○ Students are respected regardless of their religious beliefs. ○ Students are respected regardless of their political beliefs. ○ I have positive interactions with other students, faculty, and staff during class sessions and research work. ○ I have positive interactions with other students, faculty, and staff in social settings. Questions regarding bias: The following note could be added before the following bias questions to clarify explicit vs. implicit bias & give examples. “Some instances of bias are overt, while others are subtle. This short video defines and gives examples of implicit bias. ■ Possible examples of implicit bias: ● Assuming national origin based on physical characteristics ● Assuming that people from certain backgrounds have different intellectual abilities ● Assuming that someone who speaks with an accent is a poor writer or communicator ● Assuming that someone possesses certain characteristics based on clothing ● Assuming that someone possesses certain characteristics based on their gender ● Assuming something about a person of a certain group based on a stereotype of that group ● Disregarding or devaluing ideas proposed by people from certain backgrounds Sources: Yale Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning https://poorvucenter.yale.edu/ImplicitBiasAwareness, She Can Code https://shecancode.io/blog/5-examples-of-unconscious-bias-we-take-for-granted” ○ Have you personally experienced bias in the department? (Yes/No) ○ Have you personally witnessed bias in the department? (Yes/No) ○ Do you think you have ever been biased towards someone in the department 18based on race/ethnicity, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, social class, religious beliefs, or political beliefs? (Yes/No) ○ Do you think DAS as a whole should do more to address and combat discrimination and racism in our department? ■ If yes, ask to elaborate & to provide suggestions to address and combat discrimination and racism within DAS (e.g., teaching methods, graduate school application guidelines, etc.). ○ Would you like more educational material and/or opportunities in the areas of discrimination and racism than what is/are currently provided by our department? ■ If yes, ask to elaborate & to provide suggestions of educational materials and/or opportunities that DAS could provide to address/combat discrimination and racism within our department (e.g., Materials: articles, books, video clips, television shows, movies, music; Opportunities: outreach, clubs, events within Champaign-Urbana). 2. Edit the Annual Graduate Student Survey (in collaboration with Professor and Associate Head Nicole Riemer) to include the questions given above. The goal of this would be to gather information on student viewpoints related to racism/discrimination from year to year to inform subsequent action. 3. Require all faculty, staff, graduate students, and academic professionals to periodically attend an anti-bias training course hosted by the department starting in Fall 2020. Graduate students should be required to take this training once as an M.S. student and once as a Ph.D. student. Faculty should be required to take this training every three years. ○ Implicit bias training has been shown to be an effective tool when coupled with other diversity initiatives over long periods of time.9 Studies have shown that participants in training courses leave intending to mitigate bias10 and that mandatory participation was more effective.9 ○ This training should be provided in person/virtually in an interactive session led by a facilitator (as opposed to providing an online self-learning course). ○ This training should be outsourced to an institution or group that is uniquely suited for addressing and running such courses (i.e. UIUC Racial Justice Allies and Advocates Training, UCAR|NCAR Equity and Inclusion training series, or the UIUC Bias Assessment & Response Team [BART] - January Boten). ○ Any potential training should only be added after a thorough review & approval process is completed to ensure that it is distinct from the EverFi training mandated by the University. This review should also confirm that the additional training will not impose an undue burden on students, faculty, and staff. If additional training is implemented, a review of the training should occur at least every year to confirm that the training remains relevant and beneficial. 4. Incorporate topics relating to diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in the curriculum for Professional Development (ATMS 571) starting in Fall 2020. ○ At least 2 classes should be dedicated to these topics. A core curriculum of DEI topics should be developed by DAS faculty and provided each year to the ATMS 19571 instructor. The list of resources at the end of this document may prove especially helpful. ○ A guest lecturer could be invited from the UIUC School of Social Work (a possible person to ask is Dr. Carter-Black) or the UIUC Office of Inclusion & Intercultural Relations. ○ We strongly encourage a self-reflection assignment at the end of this unit for students to process what they’ve learned and commit to behaviors that reduce bias throughout their career. 5. Regularly compile and present demographic information (including race/ethnicity, gender identity, national origin, and type of institution) of graduate student applicants, admits, and new enrollees to graduate students on an annual basis to 1) ensure transparency, 2) better understand the reasons for lower representation of non-white* and non-male students in DAS, and 3) better isolate any “pipeline” issues. If there are few non-white applicants, then increased outreach could help with their inclusion in the long-term (e.g., AGU Bridge Program, Mentoring365, increased outreach to minority-serving institutions, or MSIs, see point below on recruitment). Alternatively, this information could be compiled for faculty viewing only in order to protect student anonymity. 6. Include one seminar per semester devoted to the intersection of atmospheric science and impacts on marginalized groups starting in Fall 2020. Marginalized groups are disproportionately impacted by environmental risks.11, 12, 13 Understanding this link is crucial for responsible scientific research which strives to benefit society as a whole. Potential speakers could be atmospheric scientists or members of other fields (e.g. public health, emergency management, political science, social science, or geography). 7. Require the ATMS 591 faculty coordinator to review the demographic composition of invited seminar speakers each semester. ○ The faculty coordinator should facilitate inclusion of non-white and non-male speakers. This spreadsheet has been created as a resource (can be moved to another platform if necessary). Note that these speakers should not be selected solely based on their gender or racial/ethnic minority status. ○ Set a target to diversify invited seminar speakers such that ■ (1) At least 40% are non-white, including 35% URM, when using a race/ethnicity breakdown. ■ (2) At least 50% are non-male when using a gender breakdown. ● Note: These targets should be used to measure progress and not as quotas or similar requirements. ● These targets were chosen to represent current demographics of the U.S. population (2019 U.S. Census Estimates). *For the purposes of this document, non-white refers to any person who is not solely of European descent, including those who identify as Asian/Asian-American, including South Asian; Hispanic/Latino, Black/African-American, American Indian/Alaskan Native, and Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander. Multiracial persons are also included in this definition. 208. Review the process(es) of award selection for DAS awards (i.e., graduate Ogura awards), identify necessary changes to make the process(es) equitable, and promptly implement such changes. ○ Ensure there is diversity in the group of people selecting award recipients when possible. ○ DASSO should be tasked with increasing graduate student awareness of these awards, soliciting feedback on the award selection process, and encouraging applications and nominations for these awards. ○ The award selection process could be standardized via adoption of a rubric. 9. Review all DAS documentation (e.g., DAS website, resource material distributed to students, award nomination forms) by Spring 2021 to verify there is appropriate gender pronoun usage (he/him, she/her, they/their) and gender identification options (male, female, non-binary, other) to promote inclusion of all gender identities. 10. Organize events exclusively for female DAS graduate students separately from the Society of Women and Allies in the Geosciences (SWAG), which includes all SESE departments. The goal of these events would be to empower these students and provide a supportive environment. Events can also be added/modified in the future to accomodate non-binary, gender non-conforming, and other gender minority students. ○ Hold a workshop every semester on the basic rights of female students in DAS and provide them with a working knowledge of laws that protect them and tools at the department and university level to fight against any sort of workplace discrimination. ○ Hold workshops on career development, leadership, and communication skills to help female students in DAS reach their professional goals. ○ Offer informal social events for female students in DAS to foster community and create a supportive network for these students. ○ Provide group events for female students with invited female seminar speakers to share experiences on life and career balance. 11. Organize lunch meetings during early fall and late spring for international students (undergraduates and graduates) and other international personnel (research scientists, postdocs, academic professionals) to discuss issues relating to international status. ○ International students face a unique set of challenges, including the changing paradigm of visa status. The problems faced by international students are not unique to any particular administration, and they can include sudden travel bans and an extended visa application/renewal process. ○ These lunch meetings can give all international personnel in DAS a space to discuss these issues and learn about various resources available to them. Faculty can be unaware at times regarding these issues, thus this platform can be helpful for them as well. ○ If possible, these lunch meetings can be done in conjunction with a representative from ISSS who can help guide a constructive discussion. 21○ The spring semester meeting would be focused on adjustment to UIUC for international students and an assessment of the effectiveness of the lunch meetings. 12. In the annual ethics presentation given to graduate students, state that harassment, bullying, intimidation, and discrimination are considered scientific misconduct. ○ The AGU Code of Conduct can be used for reference. 13. Create a DAS Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Committee ○ This committee should comprise multiple faculty members and graduate students from the department. It is recommended that faculty members serve a 2-year term and graduate students serve a 1-year term with the option of a 1-year renewal for a maximum term of 2 years. How best to appoint faculty members and graduate students (i.e. volunteer basis, application, etc.) is left up to the department. ○ The responsibilities of this committee are envisioned (but not limited to) as follows: ■ Create a report that assesses the culture of inclusion, diversity, and equity across the department, addresses the diversity efforts of the department, and ultimately conceives of a new set of guidelines to accelerate diversity and inclusion to help guide the department in recruiting, retention, and support. Ideally, this report should be ready to present to the department within 1 year of committee formation and should occur annually. ■ Give feedback on departmental funding, travel, scholarships, and awards to ensure that non-white, female, and gender minority candidates are fairly included and considered, including at the undergraduate level.  DASSO-related Changes 14. Strive to elect non-white and non-male students as DASSO officers in order to ensure diverse leadership starting for Fall 2021. This ensures 1) that non-white and non-male students are involved in decision-making and 2) heightened visibility of non-white and non-male students in DAS. ○ As part of this, outgoing DASSO officers should encourage non-white and non-male students to run for DASSO officer positions. Note that potential officers should not be selected solely based on their gender or racial/ethnic minority status. 15. Create two DASSO co-officers responsible for fostering domestic-international student relations to achieve inclusivity of all graduate students regardless of national origin. One co-officer should be an international student and one co-officer should be a domestic student. 16. Increase availability of social events open to all DAS graduate students starting in Fall 2020. Examples of possible events are listed below: 22○ More food-related events at area restaurants (once COVID-19 restrictions are lifted) to increase student interaction outside of normal departmental functions and to support minority-owned local small businesses. A channel within the DAS Illinois Slack should be created as a place to develop a list of restaurants, or these restaurants could be added to the recently created list of places in C-U provided to incoming students. ○ DAS movie nights in the 2nd Floor Auditorium, with movie choices in different languages and featuring different cultures (within and outside the U.S.) to foster greater interaction between students and provide a learning opportunity in an informal setting. DASSO Officers should strive to have a diverse set of chosen movies in terms of language and culture. Since the auditorium schedule is controlled by the university, room reservations will have to be made with the university well in advance. All selected movies should have English subtitle capability. As needed, movies with the “Audio Description” feature should be selected to accommodate those students with a visual impairment. ○ DAS game nights (perhaps in the 1st floor Instrumentation Lab), with games from different cultures. Games could be provided by students. ○ Annual department-wide hiking and/or camping trips (beyond the SESE Annual Field Trip). If DASSO officers as a group (along with others) perform planning duties, these outdoor trips should be more feasible to organize than in the past. Careful consideration should be given to choosing campsites, hiking trails, and associated outdoor activities to accommodate students with disabilities. ■ Note: These do not have to be DASSO-sponsored trips.  MSCAR-related Changes 17. Invite students from atmospheric science and related programs at MSIs [including Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCUs), and Asian American and Pacific Islander Serving Institutions (AAPISIs)] and junior/community colleges to increase the diversity of MSCAR attendees. ○ Throughout the planning process, MSCAR co-chairs should think of additional ways to increase participation of non-white and non-male attendees.  SESE-related Changes 18. Require that the first round of poster judging for the SESE Research Review be name-blind by masking names on judging forms and posters. This judging practice strives to reduce unconscious bias in terms of race and gender in the first round and will likely increase the diversity of students advancing into the second round of judging. ○ This is motivated by the following studies: ■ Blind auditions for orchestras have noticeably contributed to improved gender diversity amongst symphony orchestra members (Orchestrating Impartiality Study). 23■ Non-blind evaluation of resumes resulted in ~50% more callbacks for “white-sounding” names (Labor Market Discrimination Study). 19. Strive to diversify SESE Research Review poster judges. Increasing the diversity of the judges will likely have a positive effect on student diversity for both rounds of poster judging, especially in combination with first round name-blind judging. ○ Below are suggested targets for future use. These should only be considered when more non-male and non-white faculty have been hired in SESE. Actively striving for these targets before then could result in an undue burden on non-male and non-white faculty. ■ (1) At least 40% of judges are non-white, including 35% URM, when using a race/ethnicity breakdown. ■ (2) At least 50% are non-male when using a gender breakdown. ● Note: These targets should be used to measure progress and not as quotas or similar requirements. ● These targets were chosen to represent current demographics of the U.S. population (2019 U.S. Census Estimates). 20. Review the process(es) of award selection for the Schlesinger Travel Grant, identify necessary changes to make the process(es) equitable, and promptly implement such changes. ○ Ensure there is diversity in the group of people selecting award recipients when possible. ○ Faculty should make a concerted effort to encourage non-white and non-male undergraduate students to apply. ○ The award selection process could be standardized via adoption of a rubric. LONG-TERM CHANGES (beyond 1 year) **Note: These changes are not listed in order of significance. DAS-related Changes 1. Remove the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) as a required part of the DAS graduate application for Fall 2021 applicants, as the cost of the test and test preparation classes disadvantage lower-income students.14 Moreover, studies of GRE performance have shown notable disparities based on race/ethnicity and gender,15, 16 as well as a relative lack of correlation between high GRE scores and success in a PhD program.17, 18, 19 Therefore, removing the GRE would likely contribute to increased numbers of URM and non-male students in the applicant pool and accepted students. ○ Note: The UIUC Graduate College does not require the use of GRE scores in admissions; each department sets its own GRE guidelines. Thus, department faculty can decide to require or not require the GRE. ○ Note: The Colorado State University and University of Washington Atmospheric Science departments announced on June 19, 2020 that they will no longer consider GRE scores as part of 24their graduate applications. Some UIUC departments have done the same, including Geography and GIS, Chemistry, and Molecular and Cellular Biology. 2. Expand DAS recruitment practices to increase the number of non-white, female, and gender minority students in the graduate program. ○ Connect with faculty at MSIs to facilitate undergraduate & graduate student recruitment (see Increasing the Diversity of Your Graduate Program: Translating Best Practices into Success). ○ Connect with faculty at junior and community colleges to facilitate undergraduate recruitment and work to increase the number of credits that can be transferred. ○ Send DAS representatives to national conferences for organizations such as the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), Society for the Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science (SACNAS), American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES), and the Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers (SASE). Both faculty and students could attend these conferences and act as DAS ambassadors. Efforts should be made to investigate possible funding sources for these trips. ○ Encourage DAS faculty to attend receptions for non-white (Colour of Weather) and LGBTQ+ (Coriolis) members of the atmospheric science community at the AMS Annual Meeting. ■ Note: These receptions are usually open to all who are committed to diversity & inclusion, including white and non-LGBTQ+ individuals. However, these individuals should monitor announcements for these events before attending to ensure they are not entering spaces specifically designated for non-white or LGTBQ+ communities. ○ Provide more information regarding application fee waivers from the UIUC Graduate College explicitly on the department website. ○ Continue to offer URM students admission to the Sloan University Center of Exemplary Mentoring (UCEM) program and the Summer Predoctoral Institute (SPI) at UIUC. These programs provide additional support to URM graduate students and act as incentives for these students to choose UIUC. ○ Continue efforts to join the AGU Bridge Program. ○ Set a target to diversify DAS graduate students such that ■ (1) At least 40% of domestic students are non-white, including 35% URM, when using a race/ethnicity breakdown. ■ (2) At least 50% are non-male when using a gender breakdown. ● Because our department has the largest discrepancies in the numbers of female, Black/African-American, and Asian-American students (compared to the U.S. population overall), ef orts should be focused on increasing representation of these groups in particular. ● These targets should be used to measure progress and not as a quota or similar requirement. ● These targets were chosen to represent current demographics of the U.S. population (2019 U.S. Census Estimates). 3. Strive to increase the number of non-white and non-male senior undergraduate Capstone research participants through continued encouragement of non-white and non-male students as well as prominently and regularly providing resources for undergraduate 25research and career opportunities throughout the academic year, including at MSCAR and the SESE Research Review. ○ Faculty should strive to publicize undergraduate research and career opportunities on research group and/or faculty websites, in communication with SCAMS officers, and conveyed to Jessie Choate for undergraduate advising purposes. ○ When needed or requested, undergraduate students could be assisted in finding opportunities outside of departmental research areas to allow for greater Capstone participation overall. 4. Regularly compile and present the number of DAS-specific bias incidents to graduate students on an annual basis to ensure transparency and state the actions that have been initiated in response to the bias incidents. ○ DAS-specific bias incidents are reported to the DAS department head by BART upon request of the bias incident reporter. ○ In doing this, reporter anonymity should be preserved and incident details should not be divulged. ○ Related to this, bias reporting information (BART) and a link to the Bias-Motivated Incident Reporting Form (BART Bias Reporting Form) should be added to the DAS website. DASSO-related Changes 5. Create a new DASSO Officer responsible for Community Outreach by Fall 2021 to 1) increase DAS participation in existing community outreach programs (e.g., Engineering Open House, SESE Girls Camp, SESE Outreach Committee, C-U One-to-One, SCAMS activities) and 2) develop new DAS connections with the surrounding community. When possible, such outreach should attempt to increase interest in STEM among non-white and non-male students in an effort to improve STEM diversity in the long-term. ○ As part of this, faculty should urge their students to participate in outreach activities. Doing so would make it clear to students that outreach is an important aspect of one’s graduate career (in addition to research and coursework). 6. Expand the existing DASSO Mentorship program to also include incoming graduate students as mentees who would in-turn be mentored by more senior graduate students. Pairing of mentors and mentees could be based on gender and/or national origin if requested. ○ This can be done by tuning the application forms accordingly. It is anticipated that this would be highly useful for incoming graduate students, especially international students who would find it relatively easier to navigate through a different culture and lifestyle in a new country with the help of a mentor. MSCAR-related Changes 7. Encourage appointment of non-white and non-male students as MSCAR Co-chairs each year in order to facilitate diverse leadership. This ensures 1) that non-white and non-male 26students are involved in decision-making and 2) heightened visibility of non-white and non-male students in DAS. Note that potential officers should not be selected solely based on their gender or racial/ethnic minority status. 8. Strive to increase the number of non-white and female oral presenters (both keynote and student) at MSCAR. ○ Recent studies have shown that women, specifically women of color, are less likely to be selected for oral presentations and invited presentations. 20, 21 ○ With this in mind, MSCAR should strive to diversify the Abstracts and Submissions subcommittee, which selects the abstracts and finalizes the presentation type.20 ○ Set a target to diversify presenters such that ■ (1) At least 40% are non-white, including 35% URM, when using a race/ethnicity breakdown. ■ (2) At least 50% are non-male when using a gender breakdown. ● This could require race/ethnicity and gender identity to be added as responses on the MSCAR registration form. ● These targets should be used to measure progress and not as a quota or similar requirement. ● These targets were chosen to represent current demographics of the U.S. population (2019 U.S. Census Estimates). 9. Investigate the feasibility of permanently accommodating virtual attendance to allow for conference participants with financial need who can not travel to MSCAR. This could increase overall attendance, while possibly allowing for a reduced registration fee for in-person attendees due to the reduction in food and refreshments. As a result, this could possibly make the conference more self-sustaining. 10. Consider waiving the MSCAR registration fee for students with financial need, (including DAS and outside students). ○ To this end, DAS faculty and MSCAR co-chairs could explore the possibility of submitting a proposal to NSF (or similar entity) to allow MSCAR the ability to provide waived registration fees or travel to students with demonstrated financial need. Doing so will allow MSCAR to not be completely reliant on registration fees in order to operate, helping keep registration fees low and increasing attendance. SESE-related Changes 11. Create the SESE Diversity and Inclusion Oversight Committee in partnership with the Department of Geology, Department of Geography, and the Earth, Society, and Environmental Sustainability Program. ○ This committee should comprise a faculty member and 2 graduate students from each of the entities within SESE. 27■ It is recommended that faculty members serve a 2-year term, with each SESE entity deciding for themselves how to appoint members (volunteer basis, appointment by department head, vote of the faculty, etc.). ■ It is recommended that graduate students serve a 1-year term with the option for a 1-year renewal for a maximum term of 2 years. Each SESE entity can decide how to appoint members (volunteer basis, application process, appointment by faculty member, etc.). ○ The responsibilities of the committee are envisioned as follows: ■ Create a report that assesses the culture of inclusion, diversity, and equity across the departments and SESE as a whole, addresses the diversity and diversity efforts of the departments, and ultimately conceives of a new set of guidelines to accelerate diversity and inclusion to help guide SESE and the departments in recruiting, retention, and support. Ideally, this report should be ready to present to SESE and the departments within 1 year of committee formation and should occur annually. ■ Create a set of guiding principles focused on creating safe and inclusive field work/trips. ■ Work with the SESE department heads regarding any reports or statistics provided by BART. ● Committee members that work in the department where the incident occurred will not be involved with discussing those incidents. ■ Give feedback on SESE funding, travel, scholarships, and awards to ensure that non-white, female, and gender minority candidates are fairly included and considered, including at the undergraduate level. 28CONCLUSION DAS has a responsibility to promote science and solidarity. For this reason, DAS must set in place necessary frameworks and resources to combat racism, discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in the atmospheric sciences. We ask DAS faculty to thoroughly consider enacting the proposed DAS-related actions and policy changes outlined above. DASSO-related changes will be the responsibility of the graduate students to consider and possibly enact. MSCAR-related changes will be the responsibility of the MSCAR Core Team to consider and possibly enact. Further consultation with the SESE Executive Committee and other SESE departments will be conducted to proceed with consideration of the SESE-related changes. Moreover, we ask the DAS faculty to view the following petition put forth by geoscientists (Call for a Robust Anti-Racism Plan for The Geosciences) and consider publicly acknowledging the action steps contained within. Lastly, we ask each governing entity (DAS, DASSO, MSCAR, SESE) to be transparent regarding the implementation of their respective changes by doing the following: 1. Provide a response to each change proposed in this document. In the case of DASSO and MSCAR, reports should be generated by the officers/co-chairs and then compiled with the DAS report by the DAS Department Head. 2. Provide DAS students with annual progress reports to gauge where our efforts are initiating concrete changes and where we need to increase our efforts. 3. Provide a mechanism for DAS students to propose additional changes in the future not contained herein. 29ENDORSEMENTS(40) AlexAdams Anonymous Anonymous Anonymous Anonymous ArkaMitra BenVega-Westhoff CarolinaBieri Chu-ChunChen Chuan-ChiehChang DavidLafferty DevinChehak DivyanshChug DongweiFu DouglasMiller GeoffreyMarion HollyMallinson ItinderjotSingh JavierVillegasBravo JeffreyCurtis JeffreyThayer JiachengYe JosephFinlon JunZhang KevinGray LinaRivelliZea LukeAllen MaxGrover MeganVarcie MichaelSessa PiyushGarg PrateekSharma PujaRoy RandyJ. Chase RoseMiller SarahSzymborski SwarnaliSanyal TroyZaremba Tzu-ShunLin YuYao 30RESOURCES Statistics on diversity in the geosciences/STEM: ● Race and racism in the geosciences, Nature Geoscience ● No progress on diversity in 40 years, Nature Geoscience ● Women, Minorities, and Persons with Disabilities in Science and Engineering: 2019 | NSF - National Science Foundation ● Status and Trends in the Education of Racial and Ethnic Groups 2018 Regarding Implicit Bias:  What is Implicit Bias? ● Implicit Bias, Ethics Unwrapped Series by the McCombs School of Business at the University of Texas ● How to Think about "Implicit Bias", Scientific American ● What is Anti-Bias Education, Anti-Defamation League  Implicit Bias in Society ● A Field Experiment on Labor Market Discrimination, National Bureau of Economic Research ● Biases in Artificial Intelligence , Harvard Business Review ● Google on Raising Awareness of Unconscious Bias, Google  Impact of Implicit Bias Trainings ● When They Say “Implicit Bias Trainings Don’t Work”, Diverse Issues in Higher Education, Diverse Issues in Higher Education ● Don't Give Up on Unconscious Bias Training, Harvard Business Review ● A Meta-Analytical Integration of Over 40 Years of Research on Diversity Training Evaluation, American Psychological Association Statistics on the GRE: ● U.S. Geoscience Programs without the GRE Requirement Relevant articles: ● Deep Biases Prevent Diverse Talent from Advancing, Eos ● What Black scientists want from colleagues and their institutions, Nature ● How #BlackInTheIvory put a spotlight on racism in academia, Nature ● Why Don't the Geosciences Have More Diversity? Scientific American ● NCAR/UCAR Diversity and Inclusion Statement, NCAR/UCAR ● How Implicit Bias and Lack of Diversity Undermine Science, Scientific American ● Gender differences in recommendation letters for postdoctoral fellowships in geoscience, Nature Geoscience ● Increasing the Diversity of Your Graduate Program: Translating Best Practices into Success, BAMS ● 10 Simple Rules for Building an Anti-Racist Lab, PLOS ● What does it mean to be Asian-American in the geosciences?, Stanford Earth ● Women from some under-represented minorities are given too few talks at world's largest Earth-science conference, Nature 31Websites: ● A Call to Action for an Anti-Racist Science Community from Geoscientists of Color: Listen, Act, Lead ● #ShutDownAcademia #ShutDownSTEM ● GeoReadingForEquity ● Talking About Race in the Earth and Space Sciences ● Racism in Research and Academia ● #blackintheivory hashtag on Twitter ● Picture a Scientist ● Can We Talk? Difficult Conversations with Underrepresented People of Color: Sense of Belonging and Obstacles to STEM Fields ● Project Implicit ● AMS Webinar Directory - Look for webinars hosted by the Board on Women and Minorities (BWM) or Board on Representation, Accessibility, Inclusivity, and Diversity (BRAID) in later 2020 or 2021 when the name change will take effect ● AMS Culture and Inclusion Cabinet ● Racism Scale ● List of Geoscientists of Color Books: ● Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy by Cathy O’Neil (Broadway Books, 2016); Addresses the ethics of big data and artificial intelligence and how implicit bias may affect the creation of algorithms and data analysis ● Blind Spot: Hidden Biases of Good People by Mahzarin R. Banaji and Anthony G. Greenwald (Delacorte Press, 2013); Written by two of the academics behind Harvard’s Project Implicit ● The Race Awakening of 2020: A 6-Step Guide For Moving Forward by Dr. Marshall Shepherd (Independently Published, 2020); Meaningful actions to take in your homes, local communities, and beyond to move the needle Audio/Visual Media: ● Floodlines Podcast (especially episodes 3 & 4) ● Science Friday Episode from 7/3/2020: Making The Outdoors Inclusive For All ● Weather Geeks Podcast Episode 119 “Highlighting Racial Challenges in STEM” ● United States of Anxiety Podcast July 10, 2020 “Zoned for Resistance” 32REFERENCES 1. Dutt, K. Race and racism in the geosciences. Nat. Geosci. 13, 2–3 (2020). DOI: 10.1038/s41561-019-0519-z. 2. National Science Foundation. Women, Minorities, and Persons with Disabilities in Science and Engineering. (2019). URL: https://ncses.nsf.gov/pubs/nsf19304/data 3. Bernard, R.E., Cooperdock, E.H.G. No progress on diversity in 40 years. Nature Geosci 11, 292–295 (2018). DOI: 10.1038/s41561-018-0116-6. 4. Powell, K. The power of diversity. Nature 558, 19-22 (2018) DOI: 10.1038/d41586-018-05316-5. 5. Hong, L., Page, S.E. Groups of diverse problem solvers can outperform groups of high-ability problem solvers. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 101 (46), 16385-16389 (2004). DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0403723101. 6. Hofstra, B., Kulkarni, V. V., Munoz-Najar Galvez, S., He, B., Jurafsky, D., McFarland, D.A. The Diversity–Innovation Paradox in Science. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 117(17), 9284-9291 (2020). DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1915378117. 7. Dutt, K. How implicit bias and lack of diversity undermine science. Scientific American (2018). URL: https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/voices/how-implicit-bias-and-lack-of-diversity-unde rmine-science/ 8. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Division of Management Information. UIUC Student Enrollment (2020). URL: http://dmi.illinois.edu/stuenr/index.htm 9. Bezrukova, K., Spell, C. S., Perry, J. L., & Jehn, K. A. (2016). A meta-analytical integration of over 40 years of research on diversity training evaluation [Electronic version]. Retrieved [25 June 2020], from Cornell University, SHA School site: http://scholarship.sha.cornell.edu/articles/974 10. Emerson, Joelle. Don’t Give Up on Unconscious Bias Training -- Make it Better. Harvard Business Review (2017). https://hbr.org/2017/04/dont-give-up-on-unconscious-bias-training-make-it-better 11. Bullard, R. B. Dismantling Environmental Racism in the USA. Local Environment 4:1, 5-19 (1999). DOI: 10.1080/13549839908725577. 12. Islam, S. N., Winkel, J. Climate Change and Social Inequality. United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. (2017). URL: https://www.un.org/esa/desa/papers/2017/wp152_2017.pdf 13. Howell, J., Elliott, J. R. Damages Done: The Longitudinal Impacts of Natural Hazards on Wealth Inequality in the United States. Social Problems, Volume 66, Issue 3, 448–467 (2019), DOI: 10.1093/socpro/spy016. 14. Clayton, V. The problem with the GRE. The Atlantic (2016). https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2016/03/the-problem-with-the-gre/471633 15. Langin, K. A wave of graduate programs drops the GRE application requirement. Science (2019). https://www.sciencemag.org/careers/2019/05/wave-graduate-programs-drop-gre-applicati on-requirement 16. Miller, C., Stassun, K. A test that fails. Nature 510, 303–304 (2014). DOI: 10.1038/nj7504-303a. 3317. Hall JD, O’Connell AB, Cook JG (2017). Predictors of Student Productivity in Biomedical Graduate School Applications. PLoS ONE 12(1): e0169121. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169121. 18. Moneta-Koehler L, Brown AM, Petrie KA, Evans BJ, Chalkley R (2017). The Limitations of the GRE in Predicting Success in Biomedical Graduate School. PLoS ONE 12(1): e0166742. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166742. 19. Petersen SL, Erenrich ES, Levine DL, Vigoreaux J, Gile K (2018). Multi-institutional study of GRE scores as predictors of STEM PhD degree completion: GRE gets a low mark. PLoS ONE 13(10): e0206570. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0206570. 20. Ford, H.L., Brick, C., Blaufuss, K. et al. Gender inequity in speaking opportunities at the American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting. Nat Commun 9, 1358 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-03809-5 21. Ford, H.L., Brick, C., Azmitia, M., Blaufuss, K., & Dekens, P. Women from some under-represented minorities are given too few talks at world’s largest Earth-science conference. Nature 576, 32-35 (2019). DOI: 10.1038/d41586-019-03688-w 34
